Hello friends, welcome to Gate Smashers the topic is relational algebra which came in 1970 and given by EF code father of DBMS relational also called as procedural language  or formal query language, what is the reason, in procedural or formal query language whoever programmer or user is writing the query he has to mention two things one is what to do and the other one is how to do. What is the meaning of this? what to do and how to do why we are using relational algebra, to access the database. My database is lying in the back end and the user are trying to access data from different different areas, now to access that data, what is the first point, what to do, what to do actually to access that data but how to access that data for that what is the method? what is the procedure? that you have to mention in the query means relational algebra is like C programming we have to mention what we actually want to do how to do that work that is what we have to mention both the things. Therefore actually the meaning of procedural language is this, second point as we know relational algebra came in 1970 then why it is so much important? what is its value in today's time? actually what we use in today's time is SQL that is structural query language what is the base of structured query language relational algebra. Relational algebra is not implemented actually anywhere it is a collection of mathematical expressions by using various mathematical expressions a theoretical model is being made that how to access data but that mathematical expression model is used to make what? to make SQL we use SQL or we use Oracle liner we are using different different versions Microsoft or IBM DB2 whatever platform we are using what is used there? SQL but who has helped in making this SQL?  relational algebra that's why it is very important second point obviously you are preparing for GATE exam or UGC net many times question comes there on relational algebra now if I talk about 2018 even we are not using sequel in today's time we are moving our technology on non sequel now using no sequel before you were using sequel what was being used before sequel that is relational algebra so there for this point is very important because in most of the competitive exam they ask the question from where do they ask from base technology present today that is important but  who has helped in making the technology so there are chances for questions to come from there so this much is the concept of relational algebra, as I have said in relational algebra there is mathematical operations, which mathematical expressions are there that I have mentioned here, one is basic operations and secondary derived operation, this 6 are basic operations projection selection, cross product, union, said difference, and along with that to mathematical expressions I am showing so that is mentioned there along with that comes in derived operation, join intersect division for your knowledge I tell here in derived operations join is a very important topic joint is not of single type there is multiple type of joins conditional join, outer join all these operations we will see one by one we will see their characteristic and how to use them that we will see in further videos so here why join is important because it can come and relational algebra and this can also be asked in normal sequel concept is same in both what is the difference it? It is language of the query means way of writing is different but the basic concept is same same if you understand relational algebra well then you will not have problem in understanding sequel. so we will see in further videos one by one.  thank you