Hello friends, welcome to Gate Smashers the topic is cross product in relational algebra. cross product is basic operator in relational algebra I have told you in earlier videos, here we are seeing cross product by executing with a simple example. here I have first taken two relations, relation means table because we are talking about rdms  relational database where we store our data in the form of table that is what a type of database. there can be different types of database subject oriented database hierarchy oriented database network database entity relation, there are various types of database that we can use to represent the data. here we are using relational database which is used most, so R1 and R2 are two tables we can call it was relation or simply table here I have taken 3 attributes ABC and there are two rows which we also call tuples here also there are three attributes, and 2 tuples here we are talking about cross product. if you talk about cross product we can multiply a table with itself, It does not mean that for cross product I need two different tables, yes for cross product I need two tables but two tables can be same also. why we will multiply a table 2 times? this what I will tell you in other videos when we will talk about self join, presently we are talking about two tables I have to cross product this two tables and what will be the final result that I will show here. the first point I want to tell you what is the benefit of cross product why we do it? why we do cross product? because relational algebra of sequel the most important function here is join we need to join the table, why do we have to join? when we receive query so answer to a query can't be given from one table, It needs to be given from multiple tables for that what I have to do to all the tables? join now to do join what is the first condition cross product. Means you cannot join two tables or multiple tables without doing cross product means what I have to do first cross product for the first use of crop product is this that to do join you have to do cross product. Now if you say functionality or characteristic what is the characteristic of cross product. Like in R1 table how many columns are there 2 in R2 table how many columns are there 3 so total number of columns in product will be 6, means if there are m number of columns in one table and n number of columns in second table total number of columns will be m + n, this I have already made here second point is tuples if I talk about rows so how much are there in this table? two,  how many tuples are there? two, so what is the total 4. Means if in one table x number of tuples are there and in second table y number of tuples are there, so total number of tuples will be X x y. Means how many tuples will come here  multiplication of both. And number of columns plus, all though this is very simple point but it is important because of these small points your question can go wrong. So therefore now we are doing cross product what we have to do very simple give take one table what I have taken R1 cross R2 R1 is taken from left side ABC column of R1, ABC I have written here and columns of R2, CDE I have written here, now pick first row pic first row of first table 1 2 3 and write it as it is. now this Row I have to multiply with all the rows of other table means I have to multiply this with this two rows. What does it mean by multiply means write this row here 3 4 5 and what is the second row 2 1 2 2 1 2 and copy this as it is very simple pick 2nd of first table 2 1 4 and multiply this with all the rows of second table, how many rows are there some multiply with both 3 4 5 and 2nd row is 212 212 I write as it is and this I copy here. So here I have R1 x R2 ready here now when we will do join we will see for the what is its use further. Why we are doing this or what output we are getting from it but here one more point I would like to tell you it may come to your mind that why I have taken same attributes in two tables yes in two tables there can be different attributes but according to for the DBMS code whenever we have to join two tables to join that there is only one condition there should be anything common in the two tables means at least one column  at least one column should be common should be common means same. Otherwise we cannot do join and what is the funda of doing join, 1 table is R1 other is R2 and there is no similarity in between them, then there is no need to join them always we do join when there is something common between them it can be one column or more than one column can also be same this is the simple funda of cross product further we will see how to do set operators for the extension of this cross product we will see in joins. That is different type of joins, thank you.