Hello friends, welcome to Gate Smashers The topic is ER model that is Entity Relationship Model. Before starting this video, I want to request my viewers that please subscribe to my channel. Please press the bell button so that you get the latest notification. So in this video we are going to discuss the basic of entity-relationship model. that why actually we are using ER Model. Actually We are using ER model for logical representation, means If I want to see the conceptual view of the data So for that we use that ER Model. means to say, That like for any work, if I have to build a building also, then before build a building, It is not that you directly call the builder  and start making building, No. before that what I do from an architecture or design a basic model. Why do we design that model? So that whatever is my requirement. Whatever I'm saying
verbally about my request. That guy will design everything and give me And that design actually, I'll give it to the builder. So that the builder will know a basic idea that What is the my requirement? So according to that, he will start making the building. What if we don't do that? Let suppose building is half completed Now I feel that no man, this room has become wrong in this place, this kitchen should not be here, the position of the kitchen
should be according to that. According to vastu shastra that should be done. Before we built the house, we broke it down Why? Because according to our
requirement it is not being fullfilled. So that is a very big flaw. means Before implementing a thing, see its conceptual or logical view. Similarly, if I talk in terms of computer science, If I'm running an organization. And let's say, for a third party organization. or for any organization. Like for a school if I'm designing a websites, designing the database for them and designing a website. Whatever I am talking to them verbally, to the principal or to
any management person. So at that time. I won't use any commands like create table, create table or alter table, means When I'm talking verbally, when I'm communicating. At that time, I will no do any implementation. Because there may be Change in the demand
or requirement tomorrow. So I have to change the entire design, the implementation. And change in the coding over and over again is very complex thing, so what will I do? Whatever, I am talking verbally to the principal or the management person. I will make a design out of it, make Diagram, in a Diagrammatically Way, i will make a design and give it to them. let's say On a single paper, I will make a design by
taking a paper and give them, that this is the ER model, there will be such tables and these are the entities
and I will make them sign, that it is okay, that their request is done That paper or that conceptual model, I'll give to the implementation team who actually do coding & 
then they will design the database. So means the need of conceptual
designing or the database designing. Who fulfills actually? Entity Relationship Model so here what are the first terms comes? Entity Relationship What does actually means entity? Any object. Any object which has physical extension that is known as Entity. mean to say if a student Student, What can be a student too?  An Entity. What are the attributes in the student? Attribute means what can be
characteristic of the student? Roll number of the student. Age. Let's says Address. What are all these of the student? Properties of the student. Or you can say that attributes or characteristics of the student, and what is the student here? An Entity means Anything. What can we call entity basically? Anything. Or an object. Which has some Physical existence. What does relationship mean?  Any relationship or an association between two or more entities. We call it relationship. We see with a simple example, Let's say there is an entity, student. entity. Student And we represent the student entity with a rectangle and another entity is course. The course is also an entity. Beacsue What is  course too? It also has some attributes, Characteristcis, what could be the course characteristics? Course id, course name, Course Duration. And is there a relationship
between the student and course? Yes of Course, what does student do to the course? do study, so there is an relationship between the student and the courses? And give the name to that relationship, Let's say, Study. So actually ER model  is a very simple model. We are not implementing it anywhere. It's just, You can say that We just has to do represention with a diagram or in a diagrammatically way. So the student that is a entity. Roll number, address, mobile number, what is it all about? Their Attributes and what
we can call this whole, an entity type. We can call it entity type Or what Else we can call? Schema. I have already discussed about the schema in my video. Actually, it is a structure This is a structure in which the student is an entity. Roll number, age, address are their attributes Similarly, there can be another such entity like we have taken here, course. And in course entity, what can be the attributes in the course entity, course ID, course
name, course duration And the relationships between them, We actually called that Association, a relationship Now What is their advantage? Actually, we further implement this ER model This is just a conceptual view a logical representation but we further, By Using SQL (Structure Query Language) We further Implement it. So that we can actually give the user some designs at the backend. So that whenever user call Whatever e-commerce website you are using, the website you are using at today's time, the database was designed & implemented Somewhere at the backend. From the frontend you have access that database through an interface. So in this ER model. Basically, What we will see here, what is entity? Entity is anything which is a object And which has a physical existence. After that we saw here, Attribute. Attribute means Characteristics of the Entity. In the Further video, we will see types of attributes. Types of attributes. There are different kinds of Attributes. After that there will be
the types of relationships. Or we can also called the Cardinality. One to one, One to many Many To One
Many to Many. These are four different Cardinalities or types of relationships. From there, quite a few times questions comes in the GATE or UGC NET. There is a basic overview. Actually, What is An Entity relationship model? And this you can take a simple l example where the student, Study, course. These are two entities and what is in between them? This is a relationship between them. Right now I am not discussing about type
of relationships or type of attributes. From this video, you can only know, what is the entity and we represent it with a rectangle And then we represent the attribute. with the Eclipse. We represent the relationship with the Diamond. This is the representation. All although if you see once or twice  you easily remember it. But what happens many times? If the diagram given in the exam,  then they will not ask you this. Who's the entity in it? The particular questions they will ask, we will discuss in the further video. Basically, here more important is the types of relationships. Most of the questions come from there. So this is all about the basics of. ER model. Thank you.