Hi everyone, Welcome back to leadcoding. I am Fraz and I am an incoming SDE at curefit. In today's video we are going to talk about Database management system. We will see what are the important topics of DBMS and from where we can study them. You will be ready for the interviews after doing this. But before that you should know that there are two parts of DBMS, one is SQL and other is theatrical We have already made an video on SQL. If you haven't watched, you can check that out. Link will be given in the description box. Basically, 60% part of the DBMS is SQL. Rest, 40% part is theory. SQL has more weightage because SQL is asked in you first interview round also and also in the online assessment round. And in the rest of the technical round, both SQL and theory part plays an important role. So today, we will see the theatrical part Instead of giving you entire huge book to read or entire playlist to watch, I have divided this into different questions and I have also provided the resources according to the questions. These are those resources which I also used and are the best one. I was trying very hard to search them but later I checked in my hard drive and I had taken screenshot of them when I was studying these questions. I got the screenshots and then I noted all the links from them. We will discuss every question listed here and will also see from where we have to study these. Before moving forward, if you find these videos helpful, then hit that like button. And don't forget to write in the comment box that how your interview preparation is going on. I am also preparing an DSA sheet for all of you, using which you will be ready for your interviews completely. But for that, you have to wait for some time. Today is 9th day of the challenge. Do update your progress in the comment section. Fine, now let's see each and every question and from where we have to study them. The first question is the very basic one- Why do we need DBMS? I have provided a video for this question, you can check that out. It is a very simple question. Then File management vs DBMS. In this questions I have provided the link of the Jennie mam. She has explained this in detail. You can definitely check that out. Data abstraction, ER model, Relation model One thing to note here is that sometime they will ask you to make Relation model from the ER model I have provided a proper video for that. Most of the videos provided here are not so lengthy in duration and lies around 20-25 minutes. Most of you watch videos at 1.5x, so these are not too lengthy Now let's move ahead, SQL important keyword used, we have done all these. Views and indexing, I have provided two really good resources for that. You should definitely watch these video. You will enjoy them. For the theory of the indexing you can refer Sanchit jain. His videos are also good. Then normalization again, Sanchit Jain. Transaction SL properties, I have provided a very short playlist for this, I had also done from here only, and it is really good. So without wasting your time on several resources, if you will do it form there, then it will be beneficiary for you. Now let's move ahead. SQL vs NoSQL, it is very famous interview question The video is infront of you, you can watch it from there. Then you have deadlocks in DBMS, Deadlocks in starvation, these are more of a theoretical one, not so important from interview perspective But to be on safer side you can watch these two videos. They are really good. You will easily get the topic. Then we have three questions, question on what database to use? You will be given a situation and you have to tell which database you have to use in that situation. If you have made any project, then they could ask why you used this database, not that. You have to explore all these questions by yourself. I cannot mention of all those, it cannot be covered here. You can read about them on your own. After completing that you have to come here. Here I have provided you this resource. This is Database management system by Prepinsta. And the second resource is the last minute notes for DBMS. You have to follow only one resource from these both resources. Choice is yours. The interface of Prepinsta is better as compared to gfg, you can see it according to your choice. With this, you will be able to cover all the left topics in the theory. So now after you have done whole theory, you should do some questions to verify your knowledge and understanding. You can go to GFG, commonly asked DBMS questions and practice it from there. This was a short term plan. This can be completed in 1 day or 2 day or at max 3 days. I would say, finish it in 2-3 days and then revise it 2-3 times so that you don't forget these concepts later. You need not to do it in hurry. Even if you will give 2-3 hours a day, you will be able to complete it in 3 days easily. Now I am going to tell you about a very good resource which I have not mentioned yet, That is system design primier by Donne Martin This is  a very good resource, you will find all the advanced questions here. But you have to read this, if you have time  then you can definitely go for it. But if you don't have time then you can do only this much. So to tackle the startups which asks very hard questions on DBMS, this is a very good resource. If you don't have time follow only the provided sheet but if you the time, then you can check out this too if you can read. Fine. So, this is for the video. You will get more such videos on different topics but make sure you subscribe to the channel. And press the bell icon for sure and also like the video. Thank you.