Hello ji, this is Aman Aggarwal, so today I have brought for you guys CAB Jamani Technical Assessment One Short. Now many students will have upcoming CAB Jamani exam. Many students must have come to CAB Jamani in their colleges. CAB Jamani exam is going to be held, so the first round is technical assessment. If you have not cracked the technical assessment, then you will not be eligible in the fourth rounds. If you will not be able to sit in the fourth rounds then cracking the technical assessment is an important task. If you want to crack Cap Jamani then today in this video we have brought complete one shot and if you do this complete one shot then you will be getting a lot of help in technical assessment because we will give the questions of every variant here. I have made a video before also in which the questions of technical assessment will be given. And one more video was made in which I have told you all the things about how we can crack CAB Zamani, so it is very important to watch this CAB Zamani Preparation Playlist, all the videos, this is a very important playlist, videos are coming back to back, and what is the important thing, understand things very carefully because inside the technical assessment, there are questions on our data structures, our pseudo MCQs, okay, our computer networks, our clouds , all of our When it comes to questions, today in this oneshot we are going to cover all the questions, so understand things very carefully. Today we will do this video like a game. If you have covered our first video then you would know that we are going to do this video on the same pattern. Let me tell you once. Suppose, we are doing 50 questions in this video. So, I will give you a timer of 5 seconds inside each question. You will have to guess which one. What is the correct answer and the number of correct answers you have? Suppose if 30 of your answers are correct out of 50, then 30/5 50. You have to comment. Whatever questions we will do, then you have to comment like this. If your 25 are correct, then 25 and 50. If your 35 are correct, then 35/50. Then whatever your answer is, you have to tell it by commenting in the comment section so that This means that you will get one thing, your own self assessment will be done, there will be a test of yourself as to how much preparation I have and if you do well here, if your marks are 30 plus here out of 50, then you will crack the technical assessment of CAB Jamni, it will help a lot because you can see questions there on very similar pattern, many things will help you, you will know what type of questions come, then this will help you. Watch the video very carefully. Let's start the video and if you people are new to the channel then the most important thing is to subscribe the channel. You must subscribe the channel, a lot of content is coming for you people, so as I will upload the video, you people will get the notification and if you complete the video immediately then it is going to be a little big video because inside it is complete one shot but complete, you have to see whatever your marks will come inside this we will give 50 If you do approximate questions then whatever marks you get will be 30 25 35. You must comment in the comment section so let's start the video without any delay so let's start the video without any delay so what is the first question our question number one is what is a data structure so look like I have told you that there are many MCQs of data structures so first of all we should know what is data structure. What is a data structure? Option A is we have a programming language option B is a collection of algorithms Option C is a way to store and organize data Option D is a type of computer hardware So these are the four options we have, you will see them within your next round So you have to choose the right answer from them, so I guess you, you can guess, I give a timer of seconds one to three. Four F Answer C is the correct answer. Now if your answer is correct then well and good. If you have guessed the answer wrong then you should see whether the answer will be correct and remember it well. Now many students have this problem that data structure is a programming language. Look, there is a big difference in the programming language. Let me tell you once, our programming language is different, there is a different term, there is a different. What is the concept and which is our DSC, which is data structures, this is our different thing, programming language, you know CCP, Java, Python programming language, okay with the help of which we code, what is DS from DS, ours inside a DSA. Data structure that if I have to store something, I have to store my data, then with the help of data structure, I can store it, so I have a different term from DS, different term, now what comes inside it, array can be stored inside arrays, can be stored inside string, link list, then you must have read a lot of data structure. Data structure will be your subject in your B.Tech. You must have studied there too, so what is data structure? A way to store and organize. Data So option C is the correct answer So come to the question number two What data structure would you mostly like C in non recursive implementation of a recursive algorithm Now what is this recursive algorithm First of all understand what is recursive What is recursive see let me explain to you one thing step by step So understand things very carefully What is recursive If a function is calling itself Function call It self supposes, I am a function and I am calling myself again and again, I am calling myself again and again, so what is that called Recongenation? If a function can call itself, it can call itself. Function call itself is the definition of three words. If you know this then you will know Recongenation. Now we have option B, we have stack option, we have linked list option C, tree option D, so quickly. Guess, I have told you the meaning of Recongenation, now guess what will be the correct answer. Answer A is the correct answer. So inside Recongen, if you are asked any question about Recongen, I will tell you. If any question comes on Recongen, then understand what a stack is inside Recongen. What is a stack, then our stack data structure will be seen inside Curson. This is the most important question Now come to the next question The data structure required for breath First traversal on a graph Earlier, I had given a question inside the video also, so if you have seen that video then you would know what its answer is, so now I want to see your focus that how many things do you remember for long term, so now all the students who have seen that video, you will know its answer. Let me tell you one or two things, there are two traversals inside the graph which is most important, one is our breath first traversal, I told it in that video also, I will tell you again one is our depth first traversal, now what is the work of these two traversals, it is okay for you to do traversal inside the graph, now these are two algorithms, this is most important, if you are sitting in the interview of any company, then there Is also important, okay, then you should also know what is breath first algorithm, what is depth first algorithm, now before breath first traversal, look at this thing, which data structure will be used and this question can be changed by changing it, the data structure is required for depth first traversal, so the same question can be asked for depth first traversal, first we will see. Which data structure is used inside breath first traversal? Quickly guess the nut 3 for 5 Answer D is the correct answer Q Data structure Everyone will know Q What is it So what is my data structure used inside breath first traversal Now let's talk about what if this question changes and comes like this The data structure required for depth first traversal If this depth first traversal If we come to the serial, then the stack is inside the depth first traversal, so remember this, what will happen for the breath first serial, what will happen for the depth first serial, what will be the stack, then this is also a major important question, come very carefully, so come to the next question, question number four, the data structure is based on the last in first out principle, so which data structure is that? On the basis of Last in First Out principle, this is a very important and basic question, so hope that all the students will definitely know its answer. On the basis of which data structure does Last in First Out work? Option A is Tree option B is Link List option C is Stack option D is Q. Quickly guess the nature of four answers. C is the correct answer, so many questions. Answer: If there is a stack, then stack is an important data structure. What is an important data structure? Now let's see how last in first out works. This is my stack. Now suppose me, my name is Aman. Now I have put this. This is my string. Now I have put. What will be put first? So the last one will come out first, A will come out first, then A will come, then M will come then A will come, so this is based on the principle of last in first out, meaning the one who goes in last will come out first, so this is the most important question and basic question, so come to the next question and before doing this question, I am going to tell you one thing that we will provide you one to one company specific whatever your There is a doubt , they have come with it, in the description you will find one to one company specific round , I have come with a company specific session, I am fine, whatever is your doubt, what is this one to one company specific session, see, you are not getting cabs recently, Cognizant is coming, a lot of students are coming, the exam will be held after two days, the exam will be held after four days, if there is an exam after 10 days, then you will have a strategy. If you don't know how to crack a company then you can go and take our one to one company specific session. There is a link in the description where you can book. So I will guide you. I will be one to one. We will be one to one. I will tell you one thing that how to crack, what strategy to follow, how can we, any particular company, any company is coming inside your college, then you have doubt about how to crack. You can go and book a session, there is a link in the description and you can get your guidance, you will get one to one specific guidance, there is a link in the description, there you will get the service of one to one company specific guidance, you can go and get it done and if you want any mock interview to be conducted, then there you will also get the service of mock interview in which I will interview you, so you can go and book that too. Minimum rate is on it, go and check it out, there is a link inside the description. Now let's see question number five, what is the output of the following Java code, so this is the output based on the question. Pseudo code base on the question also comes. One gave us a class. Public static void main string A RGS int array 1 2 3 45 So this is not looking like Java programming language, only logic is looking inside it. You use any programming language whether it is C or C+P or Java or Python2. If you want to print an array of four, then now we have option 1 and 2, option B is two and 2, option C is five and three, option D is three and five. Now your job will be to guess quickly. This is a very important and very basic question, it is not a very hard question. Very basic question is one 2 3 4 5 Answer D is the correct answer r and f Now how this th and f came, let me explain to you once, we take the array t 3 4 5 then the student's answer at 99 will be correct because it was a very simple question but if you do not know then let me tell you once t 3 4 5 Now let us print arrow one and arrow four. So from where do we start the indexing? The main thing was that we were checking our indexing that from where do we start the indexing? So if you start the indexing from zero then your answer will be correct. If you start the indexing from one then your answer will be wrong. So normally where do we start the indexing? We start from zero. And if there is a specific given inside any question that we have to start the indexing of the array from one then there You will have to start from one 0 1 2 3 4 Now array of two has been asked and what else has been asked, let's see once array of four has been asked, these two things have been asked, it is very simple, array of two has come three, here you are seeing array of four, what has come five, three and five is the correct answer, so come to the next question, hope so you are understanding things, having fun . Yes, one short is going to cover all the things, one short is going to be complete, it will be enough, watch it properly, there is no need to watch any other video, subscribe the channel because the complete Cab Jamani preparation playlist will be very helpful to you, this is a free playlist to crack your Cab Jamani, complete it well, we are bringing big oneshots for you people, which will help you, what is cloud computing now. Question number six is ​​the most important question Ya aapka kabum ke inner 2000 24 batch aaye hai This is your previous year question What is cloud computing So cloud computing means provide services like storage servers database networking etc Option A is option B Is cloud computing means storing data in a database Option C It says cloud computing is a tool used to create an application option d is none of the mention so four we have option now we have to guess what will be the correct answer ok now quickly what is your job you have to guess if whatever your answer is then it is very good if it is correct then it is very good if it is wrong then you have to see where you have made a mistake then guess quickly na two three four f answer a is the Correct answer So answer is What did you tick? Cloud computing means provide services like storage servers database networking So what does cloud computing provide? It provides us services like storage servers database networking then option A is the correct answer so come to the next question Ch of the following is not a type of cloud server Option A is public cloud server Option B is private cloud server Option C is Dedicated Cloud Server Option D is Merge Cloud Server So which of the following is not the type of cloud server then it is a very simple question, many students will know it because in your technical assessment you will also see questions of cloud computing networking, data structure, pseudo code, cloud computing networking database, you will see these types of questions there and there will be 40 questions approximately, so if you have 40 If you get 30 questions correct within the questions then you will be eligible for the next round, so guess quickly. Now you have to guess one to 3 4 5. Answer D is the correct answer. So let me tell you. Public cloud server is also a type of your cloud server. Private cloud server is also a type of cloud server . Dedicated cloud server is also a type. So what are these three? What are these three types of cloud servers? Now we are left with our merge cloud server so this is not typed so come to the next question question number at cloud computing is a concept ok that evolve pooling physical resources and off them as which sort of resource option A is cloud option B is real option C is virtual option D is none of the mentioned so guess quickly among these one is two 4 Five Answer C is the correct answer So how things work virtually inside cloud computing Virtually works that you are getting the storage as if you have got it done, you are getting all the things virtually So come to the next question and this question is most important I write here in advance that this is a very important question, what of the following does not exist in complexity? Now this complexity happens when you write such a big code that developers write code, like you will become a developer tomorrow, you will work in a company, then you will also write a very big piece of code, 200 lines, 300 lines, 400 lines, how many lines of code you are writing, then the proposal of that code is that I ran a loop, then came from I0, A and A, and got it printed as high, so now it will also have some time complexity like order of A, so how much time did it take? To execute this code, we call it time complexity. Have we taken extra space. Suppose I am taking an array, then there will be a space count of the array. Suppose I have taken a hash map, then there will be a space count of the hash map. Then space is 2 3 4 5. Answer D is the correct answer. So you must have heard the name of the best case. You must have heard the name of the worst case. You must have heard the name of the average case. Only these three cases exist. Null case does not exist in any case in Complexity Theory, so you must have understood so many things. Understand things very carefully, take a lot of focus. Stop the video and understand the things again, even if you have doubt. If you have doubt, then comment in the comment section. Now let's go to question number 10 on the complexity of linear search algorithm. So there are two types of search algorithms, one is linear search and one is our binary. One is search, one is linear search, one is binary search, so these are two types of our algorithms which are our most important algorithms. For searching, whenever you are given a target value, you have to search there, then you can search with two types of algorithms. One is linear search, one is binary search. Now what is the complexity of linear search? Many students will know that Option A is order of n Option B is Order of log n Option C is order of n square Option D is n log n Guess quickly This is a very basic question isn't it 2 3 4 5 Answer A is the correct answer So everyone knows that order of end linear search is ok because what we have to do is iterate in the entire loop. And if we iterate in the entire loop, then the time complexity Question number 11 The complexity So just now we have seen the complexity of the linear search algorithm A We have order of A option B is order of this is log n This is log n Option C is n square option D is n Lag A So all the students, I assume that on 99 students, you must have done the linear search binary search algorithm. So if you know the complexity answer, then what is the order of linear search? What is the order of a binary search? So come to the next question. Question number 12: How many children does a binary tree have? So everyone will know what it is. This is our binary tree. Okay, now how many children does a binary tree have? Look, this will be my parent, I will tell you once. How many children does it have? Then it will be my parent. Its children will be two. Then it will also be my parent. And how many children will it have? So this thing is ours and all its children are there. So how many children does a binary tree have? A. How many children can a binary tree have? Option A is two. Option D is any number of children. Option C is zero and one. And Two option is D is zero and one and if 99 students guess the answer wrong then take time very carefully to guess the answer. One is four and the answer is C is the correct answer. Now many students must have guessed two. Now let me tell you the answer to it. Zero and one and two. Look, any binary tree cannot have either any children. This is an empty binary tree. Let me call a binary tree, there is an empty root node or there is only one child, it can also happen or there are both children, then G0, and two, so this will be our case, so there can be so many children, so come to the next question Question No. 13 The number of edges from the node to the deep leaf is called dash of the tree Option A is the height Option B is Depth option C is length option D is width. Now we have these four options. Now we have to think with our mind. What will be the correct answer? So what will be the number of edges on the deepest leaf from the node. What will be the height or depth? The question number 14, the complex one, will know, many students will not know. Let us start with zero and one. What is the series of FINA that you have to sum of two prefixed values, whatever sum of two is one, then this is done. If I have to find the next element, then what is their prefix value, zero and one, then what will be the answer one? Now if I have to find this term, then what will be the answer will be two and one. Now I have to find the next one, then what will be the answer 2 and Pv 3, then what will come from our previous 2 presidency, 32 5, so we call it Fina's series, there is a formula for it, I will write it to you, the code is also asked many times, that is, it will not be asked inside the cab jamani, this will be asked for your MC AC, but in many companies, you will be asked the phone's code in the phone series in many of the coding assessments, even in the accenture. So fn1 -1 p fn2 This is the formula because what we have to add is if this is my n then I will add n -1 and n-2 so if I take out this then 2 p 3 how much is it 5 so if I take out the next term what will come 5 and 3 8 if I take out the next what will come 13 if I take out the next what will come 21 So this is how we say Now its time complexity is a series . A is our option. B is log n. Option B is option C. 15. Do this question very carefully. What is AD? Option A is a queue implemented with both singly and doubly linked list. Option B is a queue with insert delete defined for the front side of the queue. Option C is a queue with insert delete defined for both front and rear end of the queue. Option D is a queue implemented with a double linked list. Ok now you You have to guess which answer is correct inside it and if you want its PDF then what you have to do is to subscribe the channel and comment inside the Cognizant PDF comment section. What to do is to comment in the Cognizant Technical PDF. You have to comment by subscribing to the channel and commenting. I will also share the link of the drive with you. And the most important thing is that on our WhatsApp-web, you will do things with me as many questions as you will have. 50 questions we have It is okay in this, whatever number of answers you find correct, whether it is your 30, whether it is your 35, whether it is your 40, it is okay to tell your answers in the comment section, so that once you practice, you can know how many of my answers are correct, then do tell in the comment section. And if you need PDF for revision, whether your exam is after two days or after three days, if you want to revise, then you can visit my channel. By subscribing to Cogniz and Technical PDF, comment, I will link you to the drive. Now quickly guess what will be the answer. Nut 3 for 5. Answer C is the correct answer . It happens that now I can do insert and delete from here from the front part also. Understand inside D.K. If I want to do insert operation and delete operation then I can do it from the front part and I can do it from the rear part also. So in this we get a lot of flexibility that if I want to do insert or delete from the front part then I can do it from the front also and if I want to do the delete operation from the rear then I can do the insert and delete operation from the rear also. If I can, that's why the answer is C. Option C is the correct answer. Hope, so you must have understood so many things. Now let's move on to our next question. The following is a type of cloud computing service. So what does cloud computing provide? It provides many services, like your software is service, infrastructure is service, service provides many services, so out of this we have to see which service cloud computing provides. Option A is Service as a Software Option B is Software and a Server Option C is Software as a Service Option D is Software as a Server This is a very basic question. If you have even a little information about cloud computing, then you will easily correct its answer. So quickly guess whether its answer will be 1 2 3 4 5 Answer C is the correct answer Software as a Service is. A type of cloud computing service, so the software as a service is a part of our cloud computing service, so come to the question number 17, which of the following is an example of the cloud, so brother, which of these examples is of our cloud, then you must have seen many things inside the cloud, like our photo is being used by everyone, so whose example is this, it is an example of the cloud, now we have to check that. Which of these examples is Cloud? Option A is Web Services. Option B is Drop Box. Option C is Cisco Web Ax. Option D is all of them. Now quickly guess. Quickly guess which answer is correct. Okay, I will give you a timer. No. 4. If answer D is the correct answer, then Luff is now a web service. Drop Box is Cisco Web Ax. All of these are examples of what? So of our cloud, hence what is the answer? All of the above is the correct answer. So come to the question number 18 A graph is a tree if and only if I am a graph then when will the graph be my tree. Look, whatever is my graph is also a tree but its condition is What is the condition? Option A is directed graph Option B is contains no cycles Option C is planar Option D is completely connected, then which of these conditions is there when my graph is called a tree? A graph is a tree if and only if the graph, then these are four options and one is our rule 2:1, so always you are sitting in any round, be it any company, whether it is Cab Jam, Cognizant, Censure, Microsoft, and here the probability will be very high if you read the question twice. If you do then you will guess the answer correctly once, then there is a very big rule, so follow this thing very carefully, now there are four options out of these, so quickly guess what is the correct answer, one, two, three, then F, answer B is the correct answer, content no cycle, my graph will be called a tree, just inside that graph, there should not be any cycle, no cycle, like you must have seen a lot of cycles, then that cycle should not be ours, if I have to draw the graph To create a tree, a graph is a tree if and only if the graph contains no cycles. If our graph does not contain any cycles, then we can also call that graph a tree. Come to the question number 19 to perform level order traversal on a binary tree. So if you have not read binary tree till now, then see this thing inside the binary tree. Level order traversal is this. quite a company If you sit inside, then the level order traversal inside the interview round is one of our algorithms. This question can also be coded by you. Okay, so you must read the level order traversal. It is also on google2 code, it is also on GFG, so you will answer this question within a second. Option A is Hash Table, Option B is Queue, Option C is Binary Search Tree, Option D. If the stake is four, we have the answer, now we have to guess which is the correct answer and if you have already done the question, if you know the level and traversal, then it will take you a second to guess the answer, then quickly guess, if 2 is 3, then answer B is the correct answer, then many students must have already done it, so in this, if we have level order traversal, if you will implement it. Look, when you do this question, only then you will know why there is a queue inside it, so if we implement level order traversal, we have written the entire code from scratch, then why is used there, so this is our data structure, queue is the data structure which is used for the implementation of level order traversal, so come to the question number 20. A binary tree in which all. Its level except the last has maximum number of notes and all the notes in the last level have only one child. It will be its left child. Name the tree. So read the question carefully. Option A is Thready Tree. Option B is Complete Binary Tree. Option C is Away Search Tree. Option D is Full Binary Tree. So guess it quickly. What will the answer be one tooth then answer B is the correct answer Complete Binary Tree Okay then Complete Binary Tree is the correct answer So come to the question number 21 Which software prevents the external access to a system This is our question of networking, let me tell you and this question has been repeated in many of your MCQs also . Question came for 2025 batch also, it came for 2024 also, so it is a very important question, which is the software which protects us from external access, option A is fireball, option B is gateway option, C is router, option D is virus checker, so there are four options, quickly guess which answer is my correct one, two through three, answer A is the correct one. Answer, so now I will also tell you why answer A is the correct answer, then what is the work of firewall, let me tell you now there are two types of users, one is authorized, that is, brother, I have taken access, I am an authorized user, okay, one is unauthorized user, who is our thief, okay what is the thief, now you have anyone, suppose If a thief is stealing, then what is he, he is an unauthorized user and I am taking it, meaning it is my house, so I can take it. If there is authorized access, then what does it do? What does firewall do? It protects our unauthorized users from unauthorized access so that they cannot do any tampering inside our software. So why does firewall work ? It prevents external access from anyone, any sites from outside, anything from outside. If it does not give any problem, then firewall is the correct answer. So come to the question number 22. Let me also explain to you the things of each question because the answer of the question is this because if you only know that its answer is this, then it has become rote. You should know whose answer is what, so I am trying to tell you all the things. Hope so you understand all the things in a good manner and keep counting your marks. Even if you feel that here I am not understanding, stop the video, try to understand again, go back and see the things, even if you are not understanding, comment in the comment section. Question No. 22 Which one of the following is the most common internet protocol? So which one of these is our most common internet protocol which is very common? Option A is HTML, it is fine, Option B is NET B, UI Option C is TCPIP, Option D. Is IP ​ ​ ​ ​What is Transmission Control Protocol? Internet Protocol. What is ours? Correct Answer: TCP IP is a very common Internet protocol. And if you want PDF for revision, then I have told you the channel. Subscribe to Accenture Technical PDF and comment quickly in the comment section. Question No. 23 Come to the question number 23. Friend, this is a very basic question, no problem, the basic question is also repeated quite a few times. The term FTP stands for What is the full form of FTP? Basically, if I tell you what is the full form of FTP? Option A is File Transfer Program. And if you have this Also, if you make a mistake in the answer, then you do not know the things. Look, if this is such a basic question, I would like that the answer of every student should be correct in this. Question number 23 should be correct. Option A is File Transfer Program, Option B is File Transmission Protocol, Option C is File Transfer Protocol, Option D is File Transfer Protection. So guess quickly. Don't think too much that this is a very hard question, it is very simple. The question is this definition, you must know it, right? 2 3 4 5 Answer C is the correct answer File Transfer Protocol is the correct answer. So if you are asked that the full form of FTP is File Transfer Protocol, so come to the question number 24, this is the formula, you must know. The number of edges in a complete graph of a vertex is a vertex. Now it is asked that what will be the number of edges lead. Many students will know the formula inside the graph, many students may not know, so I will tell you that option A is n * n + 1/2, option B is n * n - 1/2, option C is n2 n s / 2, option D is n, so first you guess, after that I will tell you 1 2 3 4 5 Answer B is the correct answer, so friend, remember this, this is our formula. It is nn - 1/2. It is good to memorize this formula, so come to the next question, quick short is also known. Look, many students must have read quick short. We have some sorting. You should know that one is quick short, one is merge short, one is our insert short which is very basic and one is our bubble short. So these are some of our sorting algorithms. Do their time complex task properly because it takes time. Complaint can be found Quick Short What is Quick Shot is also known as Merge Shot so this will never happen Option B is Tree Shot Option C is Sell Short Option D is Partition and Exchange Short So I have eliminated one of your options, now you must have got the hint, you have to guess within three options, so now the probability is more because in the question, I have already eliminated one option, so quickly. Quickly guess one to four answers of Partition and Exchange Sort. So you guys must be seeing what we do in quick short. We do partition. We find the power element and then exchange it. That's why it is called Partition and Exchange Sort. It is also called Bhiya. So come to the question number 26. So sorting is good. Look carefully and understand the answer. Look at it. It is good to use when alphabetize a large. List of names Now what is its answer? A merge can be short, Heap can be short, Radic can be short, Bubble can be short. It is better to choose the answer very carefully, so guess quickly. One, three, four, five, answer C is the correct answer. So with the help of Radic short, we can also create a big list of ours. Question number 27, which architectural layer is. Used as a back end in cloud computing, so look, you must have read two things, one is the part of our front end, one is the part of our back end, if you have done web development, you have done anything, then you would know this thing. Look, if you are visiting any website, you are amazonbusiness.in , what is this, this is the part of the front end, but I booked 15, like I did not know how the process went on in the back end, so whose work is this, the work of the back end. So, hope you have understood the front end and back end. Now we have to see which one is used inside the back end. Cloud soft client is all of the mentions, so quickly guess what is which structural layer of R is used inside the back end. One, three, four answers. An architectural layer is the only one used in the back end inside cloud computing, so come to the question number 29. Okay, question number. 29 What is the output of the given code shg include studio dot h int main static int aa e 5 if minus minus aa print percentage d e else main Now I will tell you one thing see this question comes inside our pseudo code. Comes inside the pseudo code. Now we will do some questions on the pseudo code also. Like I told you, we will cover the questions of all the topics, so now understand very carefully. What is my f? What is my af? Now minus minus now first you solve this, this is our four answer. What are the four options, then you guess, first you try to solve it once, then let me tell you, okay, I will give you 10 seconds in this question because this question is to solve a little, one, two, four , 6s, 7, 8, na, 10, now look at the output once, these are our four options, now let me tell you the answer once, the answer is the correct answer, now let's see. How did I solve it once and show you how many students solved it? Well and Good. How many students could not do it. Let me tell you once. Okay, there you are going to get one minute for each question, so you will do many abstract questions within 10 seconds. Many questions will also take more time. So now if it is i5, then what is minus minus decrement operator? Pre decrement operator, so these four. If this is done, then what was printed first, four then three, then two, then one, then what happened after doing this, then our output came 4321 and when zero comes, it will come out of our loop, that is, it will come out of the if. Now what is this answer? Option A is the correct answer 43 21. Just wanted to see if you know how to use the pre-decrement operator. If there is a post here, what is there in decrement like we immediately immediately minus. If minus comes then immediately your five will become four, but what happens inside the post, it happens after one step, meaning if there is a minus minus here, then it will come later and it will decrease. By one, so hope so, you must have understood so many things. Now the next question is what is the output of the given code, so its output we have to solve, set b e 4 s = 5. Now let me solve it and show you. Now we have run this loop, a is equal to a, our two will run, three will run on four, okay, so many things have been understood, now when a is our two, what do we have to do, look carefully, understand, we have to print c, there is no programming language here, it is independent, you just need to know the logic building, the logic is looking like, look here, now we have to print c, ok brother, we have to print , we will do it now, see how we will do c = 5, now I will output my Here I write down F came first b E B - 1 b how much was brother b fo was then 4 mi how much was 3 c e c p b c how much was 5 and b how much had come a b had come th so 5 p 3 8 so how much has c become c now our update has become 8 now next time when we come equal to 3 p then what to print if c then c ho k is printed a now you need to do further also No, you go to the option, go directly to it and 8 has come, my option A, put a tick, option A is the correct answer, so all yours here, do plus one, okay, now let's go to our next question, question number 31, find the output of the code integer a b c set b e 0 c e 0 for each a from 1 to 5 print c b e b pw c e c p b so this also The same is going to be like this, I will try it once and show you, now it will work for one, it will work for two, it will work for y, it will work for four, it will work for f, okay, now B is 0, c is 0, so what will be printed for the first time, C is zero, C is 0, now for a1, how much was the next b, b was our zero, so 0, b, b is updated, b and c are updated, how much is c, how much is zero plus b, how much is one, then c is done. Update one so for next time now when a will be my one sorry one is ours when a will be ours then what will be my print c1 then what is the output came for the first time ours 01 Now we will see in the direct answer G0 and is coming in option B so option B is the correct answer take out two or three iterations no need to take out the rest don't waste time what is our answer come option B now let's see whether option B is correct or not Option B is the correct answer, so hope so, you must have understood so many things, there will not be many hard questions of pseudo code, you will do it easily, just your logic building should be good, so hope so, you have understood so many things, now let's move on to our next question, guys, come to the next question, question number 32, the term push and pop is related to option A is array. Option B is List Option C is Stacks Option D is Tree This is a very basic question and all the students will know its answer so guess quickly 1 2 3 4 5 Answer C is the correct answer So all the students will know that in this task we suggest I have to do 1 2 3 This is to push and this is to pop 3 So now what is the purpose of push? We have to push the element one 2 3 Now I have to pop three so I can pop three I can take out three so now my stack will be T So with the help of push and pop I can perform operations inside the stack With the help of push I can push any element like this I can insert Pope's element inside the check. Sorry , I can remove any element with the help of Pope. So come to the question number 33. The operation of processing each element in the list is known. Look, if you have to process any element in the list, then what is it? Option A is sorting option B is merging option C is inserting option D is traversal. Okay, so four. Option We have Option We have Sorting B Merging Inserting Traversal So quickly guess what is the correct answer Nature Four 5 Answer D is the correct answer Traversal Now let me tell you any I have an array list let's say my array list is T 4 S 8 Okay now what do I have to do I mean if I apply any operation in each element then I have to treat I have to get the complete We will have to go in the loop, we will have to run the loop, so what do we call it traversal, we will have to process each element one by one, so option D is the correct answer means traversal, so come to the question 34 Who has created the base management system first, so this is very low on 10, I assume that on 10, the student will know the answer, no problem, I will tell you. Remember this because there is a name, who created it, then you should know it well. So guess first of all, guess yourself whether you know it or not. One 2 3 then 5 Answer B is the correct answer Charles Beckman Ney. First of all, create a database management system. Now the matter has come to question number 35, what is the type of data can be stored in a database, so I asked the question in the first video also. Many students would already know that now option A is image oriented data that we have stored the data of any image. Option B is text files content data. Any suggested text is any file. JPG file is any file . Option C is data in the form of audio and video. Any mp3 or mp4 file can be all of them. Now, these are the four options. So what type of data can we store in our database. DB is my database. So quickly. Guess 1 T 3 Then F Answer D is the correct answer All of the Now means we can store image oriented data also we can store text file containing data and can also store audio and video data so come to the question number 36 f the following is not a function of the database so which of the following is not a function of our database Option A is Managing Store Data Option B Manipulating data option C is security for store data and option D is analyzing code so we have four options. I will tell you by reading the question once more. Which of the following is not a function of the database. Managing store data. Manipulating data security for store data. Option D is analyzing code. So which is not a function of the database. So guess quickly. I will give you a second. To do this, guess quickly One Two Three Four Five Answer D is the correct answer Analyzing code is not a part of our database Look, it is any database Suppose if it is a database, then I will have to manage whatever I store the data, I may have to do a main plate and I will also have to provide security because if it is the data of some XY related company, then I will have to provide its security, then these three options. So its functions are those of the database, so these can never be functions, so these three are our functions, so now it comes to analyzing the code, the code was very simple, our code is not a function of the database, so now the time has come, before doing question number 37, we are going to do some questions on their basis also, like our question number is 37, now we will do questions on their basis, so these expressions come in Fixed Expressions, Prefix Expressions, Post Fixed Expressions, these are three types of expressions, these also have questions, so I had told you in the video before that, that I will also tell you the expressions in one short video, so in this video, I will explain to you first, after that, we will do MCQs on these, so understand them well. If you understand them once, then if any type of MCQ comes to you, then you will be able to do it easily, first of all. There are three types of expressions, one is affix, one is prefix, one is postfix, so what is the function of these fixed expressions? These fixed expressions are mathematical expressions where the operator is placed between its operant. Now this symbol of ours is operant. You all know a a + b, so what is this, my a and b are operants, this is The most common mathematical notation used by humans for example the expression 2+ 3 is an in fixed expression where the operator plus is place between two operands then where is the unfixed operation where two operands fall on the line where the operator is place between its operands somewhere if the operator is our operands this is A and this is B. If there is a place in between then we call it Let's talk about these fixed expressions like here 2 + 3, now what is inside 2 + 3, 2 and 3, what is my operand, what is the operand, it is clearly written here and what is plus is my operator, so we call it these fixed operations, now let's talk about prefix operation, so as you understand the name, these fix is ​​our prefix in the middle, our first and post fix is ​​our last, we also call the prefix expression as polished notation, so if you This comes in MCQ Prefix expression R is also known as given to you four options Polish notation Reverse Polish notation so its correct answer is Polish notation R is mathematical notation Where the operator precedes its operant means the operator will come before the operand In prefix notation the operator is returned first allowed by its operand So the operator will be written first The operand will come later like in the fixed expression a + b So now if I have this If I have to write the affix expression inside the prefix, then how should I write P A? Now why did this plus A come because it is clearly written in it that the operator which is mine, the plus operator will come first, what is the operand and what is A too, the operands, so plus A is the prefix expression and we call it in another word , Polish notation, so come to the next expression, these are the three types of expressions, infiso known as reverse Polish notation, now what was the first before this? Polish Notation Now remember this, if you are asked such a question in MCQ that prefix expression is also known as four options are given, then inside it you have to put polish notation. Next is our postfix expression, ours is reverse polish notation because the reverse of your prefix is ​​postfix, so remember this. The operator follows its operant. It is ok. In postfix notation, operant is return first. Operants will be written first inside it. Operators will come later. For example, my affix operation is the expression 5 p. Now how will it be written? 52 ps. So this was my fix. I converted it into post fix. And if I convert it into a prefix then it will come 5 p. 52. So this was some expression of it. So hope so you have tried all the three expressions so that you can understand the method well. Let me tell you once again. Inside these fix, the operator will come in between. Now our operands will be k. Our operator will be in between the operands, as you can see here, inside the prefix, our operator will come first, then the operands will come. Inside the postfix, it is exactly the reverse. Our operator will come last, our operand will come first, so now let's move towards the question. Question number 37 What should be done when a left parenthesis is encountered? If you have encountered a left parenthesis then you What to do Option A is it is ignored Option B is it is placed in the output Option C is it is placed in the operator stack Option D is The content of the operator stack is MT So there are four options: Quickly guess what is the correct answer Quickly guess one two three four five Answer C is the correct answer It is placed in the Operator Stack We have a stack inside which we operator, what is operator, like our plus minus, then we will also place this inside the operator stack, so come to the question number 38, which of the following is an affix expression. Look, if you have read affix expression, have read prefix, postfix, then you will be able to do this type of questions easily and if you want to read them in detail, then you can also go to GFG page, you can search. You can affix, prefix, post fix, then you will also understand in detailing, now which of these is our fixed expression, then guess quickly because you will see this type of questions in Cab Jamni, this is the previous year question, this is the previous year question, this question came in 2024, this question came in 2022, the same question came, so guess quickly. And lastly, as many correct answers as you have, do not forget to comment in the comment section. Now guess quickly. Answer A is the correct answer. So in this you will see that it cannot happen in between. Our prefix is ​​that sorry in fixed option A is the correct answer now Question No. 39 It is easier for a computer to process a post fixed expression than an in fixed expression So the first video we have made is in which we had covered some technical assessment questions, so if you have not seen it then go and watch it. You will get the link in the description also inside the Cap Zamani Preparation playlist. If I will give you then go and check, if you have read this question there, if you have read there, then if your focus is good then you will know its answer. So quickly guess what will be its answer. Is this statement true or this statement is false. Okay, now quickly guess. One T 3 then 5 answer A, then this statement is true. Our post fixed expression is easier for us to process. Comparison to in fixed expression So come to the question number 40 What is the post fixed expression for the in fixed expression So this has given us a particular in fixed expression Now what do I have to convert it into? If you have read the definition of post fixed in post fixed, which I told you, then you will easily guess that our operator k will come last, so what will be the answer to this, guess one. To 3 4 5 Answer B is the correct answer Now why is answer B the correct answer Because where operator is at the end So coming to the question number 41 In In Fix to Post Fix Conversion Algorithm The operators are associated with option A is right to left option B is left to right option C is center to left option D is center to Right, friend, now this is operator presidency, as I have told you, now you have to do, there is operator presidency, read which operator has more presidency, so now guess it quickly, quickly guess, quickly guess, what will be the answer? No, two, three, four, the answer B is the correct answer, so what is left to right, its associated will be operators from left to right, now come to the question number. 42 Which of the following is non linear data structure? So which one is our non linear data structure? Option A is stack option . Which ones come inside non-linear? So first you have to guess yourself. After that, I will give you an explanation as to why this thing came and why it did not come. So, in non-linear data structures, stack comes, list comes , string comes, tree comes, so guess quickly, one, two, three, four. If answer is D, tree is the correct answer, then tree comes under which of ours? What comes inside non-linear data structures? Is it inside linear? Let me tell you, Guice array string stack comes inside linear, what does all this come inside, does this come inside our linear data structure, if we talk about non-linear , brother, what comes inside non-linear, then tree graph comes inside what does trees graph come inside our non-linear, so hope so you must have understood things, so come to the question number 43, the same of the following. If there is an application of stack then many students must have read it, I told you that property is last in first out, this is my stack, what is its application, where is stack used and option A is finding of factorial option B is Tower of Hanoi option C is in fix to post fix option D is all of the above So quickly guess what will be the answer to this one two three f four Answer D is the correct answer, so if you are finding factorial, then my stack will be placed there also. Tower of Annoi, which you have covered in the data structure which was your subject, then there is a stack inside Tower of Annoi also. There is a stack inside these fix to post fix also, so the answer is D. And if you want PDF, then what you will get by subscribing to the channel which I told you in the comment section. You have to do cab jamni technical PDF, you have to comment on whatsapp2 What does an RDBMS consist of? RDBMS, so friend, am I tired of telling you again and again what is RDBMS, so guess quickly. 3 4 five answer C is the correct answer. Where also RDV has come in mains, relational term has come, database term has come, then understand what is Collection of Tables Database Management. It is stored in our collection of tables. Come to the question number 45 Which of the following is not a type of database? Tell me quickly. Which of the following is not a type of database? Option A is we have high RKL option B is network option C is distributor option D is decentralized so guess quickly One 2 3 4 5 Answer D is the correct one. Answer: D Centralized is not the type of our database, so come to the question number 46. Video is about to end, so now after calculating your marks in the last section, do tell in the comment section how many marks you have got. Which of the following is a component of DBMS? Which are the components of DBMS? Option A is Data Option B is Data Language Option C is Data Manager Option D is All of the above Guess do it quickly Gas quickly T 3 4 5 Answer D All of the above Now see Data Data Language Data Manager All our components are of DBMS So come to the question number 47 What is information about data called Most important question is to practice well This question has been asked many times Option A Hyper Data Option B is terra data option C is meta data option D is relation So what is the information about these formations called? Now quickly guess 3 4 5 Answer C is the correct answer So meta data If you need information about any data then what do we call it Meta data Come to the question number 48 Ch one of the following is not a function of network layer option A is congestion control option B is error control option C is routing option D is inter networking If you have read computer networks CN is our computer networks then inside it we will have our OSI model So one thing that comes inside the OSI model is the network layer So which of them is not a function of the network layer So guess nut 3 out of 5 Answer B is the correct answer Inter networking Sorry error control Answer B is ours Correct Answer: What is inter networking? This is our function. Error control is not our function. What is error control? Okay, so come to the question number 49. Which of the following ways can be used to represent a graph? So let me tell you the answer to all the students. Here, make plus one. The answer is C. Inside the graph, we can represent our graph with the help of adjacency list. We can do this with the help of Adjacency Matrix and also with the help of Incidence Matrix. Mostly our Adjacency List is useful and our matrix is ​​useful. Mostly we can represent both these things with its help. But its answer option is C. We can also represent it with the help of Incidence Matrix. So now we have come to the last question of this video and explained it in a good way. Tell me and now it's time to calculate your marks . Comment your marks quickly in the comment section. Which of the following is not the type of queue option A is priority queue option B is circular queue option C is single handed queue option D is ordinary queue is most important and basic question. If it is a basic question then comment its answer quickly. Tell me in the comments. What is the answer to this? Okay, now we have covered all the things, I have told you all the things, hope so that you have understood all the things and we have asked a lot of pattern questions whether it is my data structures, whether it is my data base management system, whether it is my pseudo code, whether it is my cloud, whatever it is, sorting voting, we have covered all the things, within this complete one shot, I have told you a lot of things in this video . If you have tried to cover it inside, then hope so you have enjoyed, you have got to learn things and complete, if you have covered the technical round one shot, then it will be of great help, this is my guarantee, so practice your cab jamani in a good way, now more videos are coming back to back for you guys, so subscribe the channel, all you have to do is subscribe the channel so that you get the notification immediately and as soon as I upload the video, you can watch it immediately. Hope so you have enjoyed, the most important thing is if you liked the video then please like it and if you have any doubt then comment inside the comment section which I told you about your marks. Don't forget to comment inside the comment section. So if you have any query then you can also mail. Comment section is open for you. You can comment so subscribe the channel. See you in the next video.