B.C.N.F, Boyce Codd Normal Form. It is also called the special case of the third normal form. Because in the third normal form we have checked two conditions. There should not be transitive dependency. Transitive Dependency, What does that mean? On the left side, Whatever our functional dependency are, on their left hand side. Should the candidate key & the super key. or on the right hand side may have prime attribute. But BCNF has even more restrictor. Because as we move the
table towards the BCNF. We have more restricted. BCNF's condition is that on the left side, Left hand side of Each functional dependency, there should be the candidate key. That means I had the OR condition in the third normal form That condition was removed here means whatever attributes
in my functional dependencies that all should be dependent on  Candidate Key Let's examine with Simple Example. Like there is a student's table. We have already seen that table is in third normal form. Means first my table should be  in third normal form After that, we will start examining the BCNF. Ok, Now like in the student table,  there is roll number, name, Voter ID and age. And some data has inserted in it. In this table, candidate key is the roll number & voter ID Functional dependencies are,  roll number goes to name, roll number goes to voter ID, Voter ID goes to age,  & voter ID goes to roll number. Now, What are candidate key in this table. I have allready given that roll number and voter id, There are two candidate key in the table One is a Roll Number,  one is a Voter ID. Now, See, the Left Side of the
First Functional Dependency. This is the First Functional Dependency, This Second one, third one and Fourth One. So we need to check one by one each. Like we saw in the last cases, in the third second and first,  in the same way We check all the cases in all the functional dependancy. So let's examine the first Left hand side. Roll number. Roll number should be a candidate key so we will be checking. Yes. In the candidate key I have roll number, that means Roll number is in the left hand side which is a Candidate key. So, yes. This is the functional dependency is valid. So better is, you just write down, left hand side Of each Functional dependency Should be the candidate key. Left-hand side of each Functional Dependency should be the Candidate key. Or super key. It can be a super key also. It can be be a super key. So let's examin the seconds one. Again Roll number,  left hand side is a candidate key. Yes, left hand side is a candidate key. So yes, this also a valid. Third one. Voter ID is Used to determined the age of the student. What does the functional
dependency mean here that we are using voter ID to determine the age and we'll check if the left hand side is the candidate key? As we saw the candidate key set, then yes, Voter ID is also a candidate key. So yes,  this is also valid according to the BCNF Fourth One is the also, because again Voter ID. So this is also valid according
to the condition of BCNF. So all the functional dependencies were given in this table. And you don't need to worry about functional dependencies. becauseto Design Functional Dependencies, You need a lot of experience. When we design and model the databases for that we need lot of experience. In that we never need to create functional dependencies. functional dependencies
always are given to us. What are the functional dependencies a database can have? So in these, I have all four are valid According to BCNF. What are its condition. Left hand Side of Each Functional Dependency should be a candidate key or super key. So according to this, my this table is in BCNF. Fine. so this table is definitely in BCNF. So if we, if we compare. Till now we have studied First Normal Form, Second, Third and BCNF, if we compare these four. So like BCNF Says that the table should be
in the third normal form Plus the Condition is that left hand side Should be a candidate key, means BCNF is the inner most. Then We are having. the third normal form. Which says that the table should be in second normal form. Plus condition. Then We are having the  Second Normal Form. The Second Normal Form says that the table should be in The First normal form plus some condition, Related to the partial  dependency. And The Last one is First Normal form First normal form So first normal form is the outer most, means If I'm at this point If I'm at this point. Means I am in second normal form. So if a person is standing
in the second normal form that means. Are they in the third normal form? No, he is outside the domain
of the third normal form. So many times the questions come in this way, that if a table in second normal form, then it must be in the third normal form. No. It is invalid, because If the table is in second normal form. Then it doesn't means that it is in third normal form. It can be or it cannot be. To check that, You have to check the condition. Which one? Of transitive dependency. Same over there, if it is given that the table is in third normal form or not? So I'm standing here. So if this table will also be in the BCNF. It is not necessary. The domain of BCNF is within it. So that is, whenever you get a question of this method,  you can remember this diagram, This will ease over there. So in this way you can compare these four. Fine. Thank you.