>> BS JAVA: Good evening everyone. And my audible,  So today we'll be discussing Week 12 concepts and Let me share my screen.  >> ARYAN THAKUR: Man, before that I have a concern.  >> BS JAVA: Okay.  >> ARYAN THAKUR: Men in this Java OPP that recently happened on.  this 30, when the problem again happened of the Gmate, like, you have login, then log out, then login, then load. It's disturbs the front. I was not able to complete the OPP. and I have written for the same in the discourse as well, and I guess Nally  name has responded that we are. We will take a note of that but till now nothing male has come that there will be a real PP or what? Because similar problem happened  in this dbms course, two terms back and  they after two, three days, only they conducted an Rio PP, and they mentioned that if you give this no matter what your past score is that will be your final score. like,  >> BS JAVA: Okay, so you had Jimmy Tissues video problem.  >> ARYAN THAKUR: Yes, ma'am.  >> BS JAVA: So you are not a redirect to zoom meeting.  >> ARYAN THAKUR: Meeting new.  >> BS JAVA: Like in Gmail, when you had issues, you got redirected to zoom meeting or not.  >> ARYAN THAKUR: but,  >> BS JAVA: You know.  >> ARYAN THAKUR: no, it was like >> BS JAVA: Okay.  >> ARYAN THAKUR: he was saying Your camera is not visible log out and login. Again This problem was occurring  >> BS JAVA: Okay, so further instructions were not there anything other than Google  meetings because this time we did zoom meeting as well, for those values.  >> ARYAN THAKUR: like,  >> BS JAVA: Maybe not in here. That's yeah.  >> ARYAN THAKUR: But for me, zoom meeting didn't happen.  >> BS JAVA: Okay. Fine. Okay. Look into that. Okay. Actually OPP exam has not been over so  we'll take the script and see on the second slot is also over.  >> ARYAN THAKUR: Yes, that's why I was I have written that thing that on I went six, I guess  >> BS JAVA: Yes. >> ARYAN THAKUR: there is an OPP if  the problem is sorted in, then you can conduct a real puppy, for those people which have face the similar problem. Because if you see now in the that exam, they're transcript. So like we can chat with Proctor and so  Proctor is writing at your  this is your camera is not visible. Please log out and login, you can check by that. Also nice friends who are as a problem, and But regarding that, I have got no mail and five and six. I guess it's the last day for the Oppa 2 as well.  >> BS JAVA: Okay.  >> ARYAN THAKUR: Please remember, do something about it. 20 Marks is With the weighted. >> BS JAVA: Yeah. I'll talk to the team. Okay.  >> ARYAN THAKUR: And thank you. >> BS JAVA: And actually, it's not an issue from outside. It's something Jimmy itself. So we  have raised this issue to go to itself, but It's not solved yet. I guess. I'm not very sure. >> Sayan Bhowmick: Actually, not everyone. I mean I'm not sure if I should say this because we are recording. But not everyone is as lucky as  I was doing oppe one because the issue I also face but for last 15 minutes which 15 minutes would they actually added  And, and luckily, I was done 30 minutes before the actual time. >> BS JAVA: Hmm.  >> Sayan Bhowmick: So, so that so that's why I got lucky but not any not, everyone would be lucky as me.  As I was in Opp one and I I'm kind of scared right now. What if I also face that issue?  >> BS JAVA: I know she's like here we are looking on that or surfacing issues. So we are  taking those, don't worry about that. Okay? Just prepare for the exam. Cool.  >> Sayan Bhowmick: All right.  Yeah.  >> BS JAVA: Let's start but the big deal. so, In 12 is dealing with the graphical user interface.  How we can create a GUI using Java using two different packages called awk batteries and SIM package. First of all, what is practical user interface? The this particular interface where we are seeing now where we can interact with different companies, like, but then explore label or anything. If I click on this close button in this gets closed, this particular tab again, close all those things can be called as an interaction with this particular interface, correct. Now.  Examples are given some login forms. Any.  So some login forms, basic examples, calculator. All this can be loaded in graphical user interface. Now, what is advantage of graphical user interface. So we know command line  interface. Right? So anybody, no, who is really it? Good programming. You can  use the command line interface and do things, but if somebody is not Them. This particular background still if they want to interact with some application, then the only way is using graphical user interface using this images and  that buttons etc, that is very easy. So this user friendliness, that is the first advantage of graphical user interface.  Intuitive. And visually engaging compared to the mainline interfaces, that is another advantage of Now.  >> Biplab Biswas: first one window today's session, it says that it is a OPP session but you are  taking us to we will. And that is what you will be discussing today.  >> BS JAVA: And today it's a big turn. Actually we >> Biplab Biswas: Okay.  >> BS JAVA: So, OPP session is already conducted in the last week, right? You can refer that to sessions.  Now, are two main GUI toolkit that we have is one is AWT package and the other one is swim package.  And AWT basically gives this components like buttons. Labels text fields, etc.  So what is component in terms of, GUI component, means any button or any label or text field check box. scroll bar, all these can be considered as component so you remember the term component.  And AWT package gives us heavy weight components that are dependent on the So, according to the system, it will change, we can feel will change.  These are some examples of but classes or the components that we get from Awd package. Now, sing package. This is built on top of AWT.  And the special using packages, it gives us light weight platform, independent, and the look, and feel is better compared to AWT.  And these are the classes or the components that swing is giving J button jail.  j table checkbox etc. So the components in sync package, all of them start with G, okay? And here you see button for the same button in Swing, we have Jay pattern.  Now advantage of singing components are they are richer UI components, more components, are they, and you can feel is better. And platform independent, main things. Okay. Now. I'll show. One.  Particular GUI. so this is a developed using AWT package, and this is using same package, same thing.  Three companies, ID, password, and subnet. But in sync package, it looks better than AWD Okay. Now What are the steps to create a graphical user interface in Java? So first of all, what we have to do is you have to import the liquid packages which are sync package and AWT package.  And optionally use. AW, beautiful layout managers. Now, what is layout layout  means, how the components inside a frame is actually arranged. So I can say this is a frame, the whole thing is a frame. You think this is a frame and these are the components. ID button, Password button and Submit button as the components inside the spring.  and how I want this buttons to be appeared in this particular frame can be set using the layout. Okay, so  We have different types of layout. So, using the different types of layout you can arrange this components inside the frame. and one more thing I can say, is,  This is frame now and these are the buttons. One more thing is this buttons I can put inside another layer called panel And this panel can be put into the frame. so we are like layering so we create the components ID and password will put this component into a panel. And then I will put the panel into the frame. Okay, this is kind of layering that we do.  So in Panel also inside the panel, also, you can arrange the components in different manner. Will come to that. Now, first of all, really import the package and secondly, we'll create the frame or jframe frame is actually coming from AWT package Jframe is from sympathies. So the frame means the main window of the application main window. This is This is frame. And we have to set the size of the frame. Layout of the frame.  Etc. And also we have to set the visibility. So every time you have to set the visibility as true, then only the frame will become visible. That is a second step. We we have to create a frame. And third step is. Creating the Components, Whatever the components that we want to put into the  frame, will create those components. So we have these classes, as Java is objectively programming language. We have everything in classes and objects format, so these are classes actually these components We will create object of these classes, and then, We'll add those into our shape, okay? That is the next step. so, organize components in containers, containers means The frame can be called as a container. The panel can be called as a container container which will hold different more than one components. Okay? Now, Organize Components in Continuous, we talked about panel, right? So using the  panel, we can group this components So, we can add this button into the panel.  And we can also set layout to control the positioning of components. So we can  we can say how this buttons are to be arranged in this particular panel so that we can set using the layout. So that is the fourth step. Next.  After getting the panels.  Add these panels to the frame. So next level components to Panel Panel to frame.  And here again, we can use different layout to arrange the panels in the frame. And by default, we have something called border layout.  Otherwise, you can specify any layout will come to this different types of layout.  and once we add the panels to the frame, everything is done then you just have to set the visibility as true. You just have to call this method, it visible by passing through.  So, these are the steps to create is UI. Import the package. Yeah. >> ARYAN THAKUR: Amendment. And the container contains the components.  >> BS JAVA: Is.  >> ARYAN THAKUR: And one doubt like I have not read this week. Well, what I understood from now in the GI because we cannot everyone cannot  interact with terminal giving input and all. So we have this GUI but in practical we use HTML and Java's.  >> BS JAVA: yes, this  >> ARYAN THAKUR: for and these type of thing. So, why this is it still used like this GUI of Java?  >> BS JAVA: And this is a deputy general, we don't use much actually. What they can say.  >> ARYAN THAKUR: It is not used now.  >> BS JAVA: I can't say that completely, maybe they will be using it when they develop  applications in Java. But mostly nowadays. Yeah, we go with Haha. >> ARYAN THAKUR: But the work of the both things are the same. Only Jul.  >> BS JAVA: Yeah.  >> ARYAN THAKUR: so helps in that and HTML Cs.  >> BS JAVA: A bit. Yeah but here Java we can use it to interact with Backenders today.  So, if you learn more about Spring framework and all you will see, the use cases.  >> ARYAN THAKUR: Okay.  >> BS JAVA: so, These are the main steps. now, come  Yeah, good part and just take you through one example. Okay, I missed one point. I was thinking about that. So this layout, right? So  we have different types of layout like border layout slowly out grid layout etc. So in  I start with the flow layout in flow layout, how in companies are arranged is it will arrange from left to right first and then if the space is over, then the components the buttons or anything will go from top to border, just like how we write in Text editor. So it will arrange from left to right. Then talked about  them, that is slow layout. It's it follows some sequential order and then comes  great layout. So, great layout is like a table, so we can specify the Rows and Columns According to that the buttons or components will be arranged  There is great layout. If you want to see and show with, This particular practice designer.  So this is great layout here, three rows and two columns. So we'll specify something like grid layer, three by two. Okay, and this is border layout. So border layout means  The components are arranged in different areas, like North South East.  I sorry this is east north, south east west and center like this. That is border layout  Where is slowly out?  Slowly out is left to right and talk to bottom. Okay? Okay, I'll just show this example this here. Here it is actually slowly. It is arranged in the form of left to right. Is that clear the basics? I'll go. To the core part, if this is clear. Okay.  So, the first example here is done using AWT package. So first of all, important the package AWT  And what we have to do, we will have a class, okay? And this should extend the frame plus  Okay. Now this is our free.  This class is going to represent our entire frame. First thing is, this class should extend the frame plus. no, now here What are the components that we have? I have created ID, password, and Submit button.  So Class button, using the Class button, see this class creates a labeled button. Okay. So ID, password and submit are the  Button. Basically creation of reference variable, this is button plus ID password and  assignment. Other reference variables objects, are noted created and everything.  can creating the buttons, setting the visibility to set size, all those things will add inside the constructor. So when you call this particular object, when you create this particular object, the constructor will be called and the frame will be created. That will be visible. Okay? Now  Here, the layout is set as flow layout. So explicitly setting the layout, why I saying, explicitly setting the layout, if you do not specify the layout for the frame by default, it will take border layout. So in this particular example, the layout is explicitly said by us. So for that, you have to call the set layout method, and then you have to create the object of whichever layout you  want that particular string to follow. So here creating new flow layout. So this is going to follow the flow layout.  Well, now, once you save the floor layout, we have any doubt anybody raised time.  Okay.  Now, once you set the layout now and creating the objects objects of buttons. So we are basically creating the buttons. So ID equal to new button and whatever you want. The To display on top of the button, whatever, the text, you want to display on  top of the button, I had to put it here as a string. So ID will be the name of  that particular button that we can see. Okay, and password and submit  You see constructs a button with the specified label? now, once you create the button,  Once you create the button, next thing you have to do is you have to add this button into the frame.  Okay, how you can add you can just call the ad method as the button objects, add  ID. So this will add these buttons into this frame. Okay, we have not specified to what it should add, right. This we are calling Add method, so by  default, the frame is listening to this buttons. Now, whatever that is added using the Add method is going to be Put inside the frame.  Okay, and add ID. Add password, Add submit. Now, all the buttons are inside our frame. We have added our buttons into container. now, once we add the buttons, next thing you have to do is you have to set the  visibility to true and you have to save the size for your frame for that window. You can specify the big 10 height in pixels.  now, that is our frame test plus here, what I did in the main method, created an object of frame test Let me run this.  Program.  so you see, ID password and submit why this is in this format because we have said the layout as low layout,  Are you getting it?  Now, if I Remove this.  Now, if you see the frame,  so,  Okay, now it is following border layout. Now, when it is border layout, you have  to specify where it should add in border layout, we have not south east west and center, right,  So, you have to specify where you have to add those particular. And this.  spelling should be capital and then small,  So, this should go to the north part. And password and keeping it in. Center. And submit button. And keeping itself.  So you can see ID password and submit in this manner. Okay.  So, according to How you want your components to be arranged? You can change the layout?  Now, let's go with the second program. Second is using sync package And here, what we are doing? Yeah, here we will do one more thing earlier what we did is we directly added the buttons into the frame here, we will add the buttons to the panel and panel to the frame. so, first of all,  We have to extend J frame because I'm using same package here so, whatever the classes that is presenting starts with G,  Now creating j button. Again, the same buttons, ID, password, and submit and then creating panel P1 and P2 J, Panel, Q and P2. And here creating the original button object of button password.  And t, 1 is the panel, creating the panel and for panel by default. It takes flow layout. And then adding the button ID and password to p1 panel. So p1 dot, add ID and p1 dot at password. So this buttons are added into this particular panel. Okay.  And then submit button, we have created here and we have created another panel P2.  Now Submit button is added to P2 P2 dot add. Submit will take the Submit button into the panel P2. Now we have two panels.  Okay, now, what we are doing? Adding the parallel P1 to the north of the frame. And adding the panel paper to the south of the frame. Once we do that, then setting the visibility to true and setting the size of the frame as 300 by 400. If you run this, What you will get is.  ID password is here. So, this is panel P1, and this is P2, submit, is at the south part? And it should.  >> ARYAN THAKUR: And then it is render.  >> BS JAVA: Oh no, it's rendering. Eclipse is just  Showing it.  >> ARYAN THAKUR: Okay.  >> BS JAVA: Not in it.  >> ARYAN THAKUR: And if we do set visible to false, then it will not show.  >> BS JAVA: It will not show.  If you simply remove the statement, it will not show.  >> ARYAN THAKUR: And mem why we are on in both the cases. Why we are extending because we extend something because we need the functionality of the previous one, and some adding some additional functionality here. Are we doing something like that?  >> BS JAVA: Here, it is very different. So basically this, when we extend j frame, it means we are going to create. This particular class is going to represent a  >> ARYAN THAKUR: We can directly create the object as well and JFrame object.  Like we used to do in other things. We directly used to create by new and object. Here we are extending, but  >> BS JAVA: Haha. Yeah, that was you know you can do the new Java, you can create an object of JFrame and then you can do that is also fine.  >> ARYAN THAKUR: Okay.  >> BS JAVA: Is that okay? Shall I go to the next?  >> ARYAN THAKUR: It's not good. >> BS JAVA: So next is something more here, we have not dealt with anything, right? We just  have some weapons and We have not done anything, we have not interacted with the components. if you want to share this document, you can just  Okay, next part is even. So yeah. Consider this particular energy UI we have. So here, I'm going to enter some  number, and then when I click on Add button, I want the result of addition here. Okay, and when I click on the Multiply button, I want the result of the product of these two numbers.  So that is what I want to do, so I'll give some number. That number has to be read by the program  And then it has to do the addition or the multiplication, according to the button, I click and then the result should be displayed here. That is the thing. Now, let's  see some of the terms as associated with it. Now, when I click on the button, we can say, And the event source is this button button you clicked on it and then even is And there should be something called.  listener, which is actually listening to this event. And whenever this button is click that listener, has to do  something. So in terms of the program we can say it is a function. So when I click on the Add button, Then that function has to be triggered. And it should do something. Correct. So this is how you can relate it. So when I click on the button, it is actually  triggering an event and the event. We have some reason. It listen, I will listen to this event and it will do something. And one more thing, the programming language Java, what it provides is.  When I click on the button and the function that is waiting to be triggered. this should be connected, right? So we have to establish a connection between them and it's not like we will say if you click on add then this function is generated. So there should be connection in easy way of connection between the button and the events that is given by the programming language itself. So we'll see how it is done.  so, Yeah.  Let's see. So first of all, we have to import another package called event package. So this even package gives us all those class interfaces and methods  That is needed to do this. Even have you  Now we have calculated, some calculate extends, j frame, and it implements the action listener interface. So this is the interface that help us to do. this thing. So there are different interfaces for this, according to different events. So, when I do click this, clicking thing for that, we have action listener. If you do something on the keyboard, there is something called key  listener.  So, you have to understand.  So you have these mini things action listener window listener, please in an item, isn't it? So Components. So for Button, We have Action Designer, when you click on a button,  we are basically using this action using a interface and then for Item Toggle, Button, etc, Selecting Thinner For that. We have Item Listener interface. Yeah.  So many kind of many interfaces are there. You just have to see. Java Dot. just a package awt even Able to do that. So you just have to go here.  And see the different types of listeners that we have actually listen. And there are interface for receiving action events.  And we are basically dealing with items in a listener interface for receiving Items key is another for receiving keyboard evenings. Mausole is in her for receiving interesting mouse events, press release, etc. Window is enough for receiving window events. Any doubt.  >> ARYAN THAKUR: My, but do we have to remember all this?  >> BS JAVA: No, no. You don't have to remember once you go through this, your language stem in exam, you will see the same thing. I mean, the term itself will Help you to understand what it is to do.  >> PURNENDU SHUKLA: when one question, we are using all these to create Android applications and all those  >> BS JAVA: Yeah, when we create using Java, then we can use this.  >> PURNENDU SHUKLA: Okay.  >> BS JAVA: so, Just go through this, once you get it, you know? so, that is Some of the  Business.  Yeah, and another thing you have to remember is the methods. So those are the interface and they will give you some  Abstract methods. So you have to override those methods, for example, in the case of action listener, we have this method called action performed, okay? That  will take an object of even class and then we can do, we can give the definition for that particular method. so, whenever a button is clicked, whatever the things that you want to do that, you can put inside this particular method. That is what the Connection will help you. With the example here.  For now, you understand that we have listeners and listeners will have methods and those are the functions or methods, which will be invoked when your button is clicked, okay? In this case of button,  So here implements action listener. And here we are creating some buttons so add  and multiply button. If you remember the image that I shown earlier, we had add and multiply button and some labels. We had label one. Label, two level three level four. Why is that?  so this is label, label means any string that, you can put here label one label  to label 3. And here we are expecting the result right for that label for So those are the four labels.  Now. Text B1 and T2. These are the Texture When Text field analytics. and then,  Panel p1, P2p3. Okay. We'll see where we will add this components.  Now, everything we put inside the constructor first creating an object of panel.  And it'll be one. And here we have label one, new J label and here, whatever the string that you want to put, you can put here, enter number one. And next.  Then label Enter Number Two and Next Text field then. okay, so that we get enter number one, this and the number two and this Then. Adding all those things into panel one. So we are adding label, one text one  level to text to all those into the panel P1, okay? And then adding the panel one to the north of our frame. So we have not specified the layout. That means this is going to follow the board layout by default.  Correct. The frame is following border layout and we have not specified the panel layout as well, which means the panel is going to follow the flow layout, so, the components within the panel P1, which is Level 1 Text 1 label, to text  you. This is going to follow the flow layout, so this will be arranged in cash to write. Yeah, we can see, this isn't left to right.  And this particular panel P1 is added to the north part of the frame. That is done. Once you do that, next Part Panel P2, creating panel P2.  And creating objects of buttons. So add and multiply buttons are created. And then adding the Add and Multiply button to panel P2.  Okay, and next, adding the panel P2 to the frame to the center of the frame. So add. And multiply is at the center of the frame. >> PURNENDU SHUKLA: That I have a question if I want to align it like vertically in turn. Number income number two. Then how to do.  >> BS JAVA: Then you vertically in the same, stop the bottom right.  >> PURNENDU SHUKLA: Yeah.  >> BS JAVA: So you can go with grid layout, but number of row should be one. Sorry, a column should be one row should be 4. So it will be in vertical order. >> PURNENDU SHUKLA: But those should be four. Hmm.  >> BS JAVA: Yeah, because four things are here, right? So you're going to put it. one by one. So one column four rows.  >> PURNENDU SHUKLA: Okay.  >> BS JAVA: Yeah.  so then,  >> ARYAN THAKUR: Your setting, the text field, 10, like size of 10. So, can you set this L1 as label size as well. Like H1 heading H2, heading bigger phone, small font changing the font. All those functions are is there in G level.  >> BS JAVA: Yeah. Yeah, you can do that. You can set the size, set preferred size for those  components also.  >> ARYAN THAKUR: Okay.  >> BS JAVA: Meaning it is available. We have discussed very few actually in our course, but there are a lot of things you Yeah. Now Any P2 into panel P2, we are adding added Multiply button. And then adding P2 to center of the right.  Once you do that, next thing is, what result part. Last panel we created panel  p3 and creating label result and L four, new J label but we have not added any string here. This is going to be empty, you won't be able to see it.  Then adding the L3 and L4 label 3 and label 4 to the third panel and adding panel 3 to south part of our frame here. South part  Now, once you do that, you can set the visibility to True and set the size of the frame, according to how you want. So this is just a static part, correct?  This is static part. Now you are trying to make a dynamic, so when you give the number and then you click on the Add button, you have to get something here. For those, you have to do more. Is that clear? The first part?  Actually, this is very important.  so, adding panel to the North Part Center part, This layout thing, these are very important for intense exam, okay? Now.  Now, let us try to connect this particular buttons to the action performed method. for that, what you have to do is  I'll just separate these two lines. So this particular line, you see.  and dot add action listener. This and multiply dot. Add action is another this and here. You see this particular method, action performed method, the method that is coming from our interface, which interface  Actionable. so, when you click on the Add button and the Multiply button you have to do something. So basically now you are connecting the buttons. To this particular method now, okay, and there is something called Action Event  class. So basically the object will be of type of action event and using this particular action, even class will store all the information related to what you click or in our case, what you click Now. Yes. yes, this is a basic thing from  Them.  This, two text phase, you will get the number, right? So basically it will be format. So what you can do is you get the Text from the A1 and T2 and then convert into integer and store it in number 1. and number two, Basic conversion of existing into integer. Once you get that, then Now comes get action command.  So you see here here you see ADD set, add DOT set action command and multiply it all SET action camera multiplayer. So what does it mean? so, for the Add button, when you click on the Add button, When you click on the Add button, then,  Sit action command as this particular string, add. So there is some variable that is set as Add when you click on Add button, and at the same time, when you click on the Multiplayer button, the Set action command method will set the value of the variable, as multiply  Now, how can you retrieve this for that? You have this method called get action, command? So using the action event object E, So when you call e dot get action command. Then  According to which button you click, you will get the string, add or multiply. Right? So using Get Action command, you will either get an OR multiply now, once you get that particular string value into this is, Then we are going to check.  normal string matching, If s dot equals add, then we'll compute some equal to number one plus number two and then we will  will set the value of our sum in this particular label for  Create here. Here we will add that text L for dot set text method is in the text. You will add some is this particular  Otherwise. if s dot equals multiply then,  It means that Multiply button is clicked, so Product is calculated and Label 4 will be set as Product List. so, Main thing to remember is here, this is going to register.  Our event with the listener. Okay? That is actually establishing and association waiting Event, and the listener. now, this is how It is going to check which button is actually clicked by the user. And get Action Command is going to using the Action Event object detection, command is going to get the details of which button is clicked. Are you getting it? >> PURNENDU SHUKLA: Section command does what it accesses the values in the set axis.  >> BS JAVA: Yeah.  So this is a SET ACTION, commandment detection command. So SET action, command  >> PURNENDU SHUKLA: She? >> BS JAVA: will set the Yeah. In.  >> PURNENDU SHUKLA: internally how it works. Like Get action means like is it like a VR capturing an event ad  >> BS JAVA: Yes, yes. See here, everything about the event will be stored in this object called action event this E.  So using that particular object, you can access whatever the value set for section commandment, okay? Yeah, it's action command.  Okay.  >> PURNENDU SHUKLA: Okay.  >> BS JAVA: Are you guys are doing mad? When Or.  >> PURNENDU SHUKLA: I am.  >> BS JAVA: Have you completed, okay.  Actually. Point of view, this is very important. We have to. Know this connecting how we can connect the event and the listener.  Only these two things are there in Victor. Nothing more, okay? >> ARYAN THAKUR: Them. And this can it go to that slide?  >> BS JAVA: Slider. >> ARYAN THAKUR: Course, right. Or code. Sorry.  >> BS JAVA: Okay.  >> ARYAN THAKUR: And here go down.  Yes, I'm here. You are doing this ad dot first year. This addiction add Dot add action listener. So what it is doing  >> BS JAVA: Okay, so this is kind of thing. This connecting the event with the Listener.  >> ARYAN THAKUR: And if we have multiple events, then how we will connect. Like here you are giving two things and out of that two things it is taking one thing. It's thing  >> BS JAVA: Yeah. >> ARYAN THAKUR: if we have multip things or we want to take multiple things from that, how it will work.  >> BS JAVA: You're saying multiple things in the same?  >> ARYAN THAKUR: where you have three four buttons and you want to click two buttons, then you have to make it separate or what.  >> BS JAVA: Okay, in this case, it is actually one reason and multiple buttons. Okay.  One listener, multiple buttons. And if you want to have more,  Listeners. Then you can add the next method for example, for if you do window,  Then you will see window Iconified window. D, I couldn't decide etc. Many methods will be there so you can add those methods. And again, call the same. You can Add this ADD. Actually listen it with that particular Method. Then you can call it. this is actually this particular  >> ARYAN THAKUR: And this add initiates and  >> BS JAVA: Yeah. >> ARYAN THAKUR: Add.  initiates, Add and multiply add initiates, and this Add action listener. And then this set put the value equal to the variable you are putting in this course, right?  >> BS JAVA: so this one actually passing the object, our object, enter object, current object to the listener. Okay, this particular line. >> ARYAN THAKUR: This whole object.  >> BS JAVA: Yeah. now, this is actually  This is actually to understand what is the source of event. So you want to know when which button is clicked, right? We have to get the source for that we are using the set action command. So, when you click on Add then, this will actually initialize variable with Add, and if you click on multiply,  then it will become multiply  There is one more thing you can do. I need to grow. Practice assignment question. We say that. instead of using Set action command and detection command, there is something  called  Yeah. So use your instagram using get action command. You can directly get the source.  the reference, variable using git source.  We just have to call get source so when you call get source, you will get. Which button is actually clicked. So then inside the equals, you don't have to  use a string. You have to directly use the reference variable. Get those will directly give the button name. This is another way instead of using detection.  >> PURNENDU SHUKLA: For this button. Dot equals inside that we have this button name  >> BS JAVA: Yeah, the reference variable of the button button. Note, the string on top of the button.  I mean, not the string on top of the button. I meant what we put inside set action command. Okay, not this. right, the button itself button name itself,  >> PURNENDU SHUKLA: New J button, right?  >> BS JAVA: Yeah. There's other two ways. so, You can practice this using.  Here you'll see in Java, Lisation. Could be 12, We can see the code, okay? You can just go through this and try to do it yourself.  >> ARYAN THAKUR: Versus week, 1 to 12, right?  >> BS JAVA: For intern, right? Yes.  >> ARYAN THAKUR: Yes. And week 9 to 12 will be in major portion and other weeks like 60 40.  >> BS JAVA: yeah, kind of Not 60 40. Yeah.  >> ARYAN THAKUR: That means Offic.  >> PURNENDU SHUKLA: So it is, will equal.  >> BS JAVA: Correct. This  >> PURNENDU SHUKLA: Them. So weightage will be like for week 12. What?  >> BS JAVA: Big time. Yeah, you can expect some 12 marks questions. How to find it.  That is.  >> ARYAN THAKUR: Concepts are very less.  >> BS JAVA: Bacs only these two things, even handling the main thing. Whatever that I discussed today. Now just to go through that and also you can  solve the previous questions.  >> PURNENDU SHUKLA: Means. The event handling is only the thing that they ask.  >> BS JAVA: Yeah. And layout thing. Also, you may, you can expect  >> PURNENDU SHUKLA: I was seeing the practice at practice, practice, practice assignment as well as. >> BS JAVA: Huh.  >> PURNENDU SHUKLA: the activity questions, there are a lot of them,  >> BS JAVA: yeah, you can't you won't be able to see such kind of questions like Those things one day. This won't be there. >> PURNENDU SHUKLA: Hmm. >> BS JAVA: More. Like, With a GUI, you will be asking how it is.  >> PURNENDU SHUKLA: it's like GUI component, they will show an image and they will ask  >> BS JAVA: That. Yes.  >> PURNENDU SHUKLA: For these will be present in the pyqs, right?  also, one more thing currently I am in week 11, not in week, 12, >> BS JAVA: Mmm.  >> PURNENDU SHUKLA: A little bit slow, so it's that, okay.  >> BS JAVA: Yeah, you have to put some effort into the 11.  >> PURNENDU SHUKLA: And doesn't notes that you shared earlier, right? Those are >> BS JAVA: Right.  >> PURNENDU SHUKLA: also means for theory I can go with those right?  >> BS JAVA: Sorry.  >> PURNENDU SHUKLA: the notes that you shared earlier,  >> BS JAVA: Haha, yes. Yeah.  Yeah.  >> PURNENDU SHUKLA: right? The notes for Week 12, right. So I can go through it and then watch the lecture or it's like I should watch the lecture and then  >> BS JAVA: You can wind watch the lecture quickly and then you can refer the notes.  >> PURNENDU SHUKLA: Okay.  >> BS JAVA: Now yeah.  I want to ask tomorrow will be having kind of relation session. Operating, so we 10 11 and 12 will see.  So, if you have any doubts in these three weeks, just note it down, okay? And we'll post a discuss. Will personal dispose like a thread will open. You just put it there, okay? just quickly, go to 10, 11 12, pull it all the doubts, you have tomorrow will take it.  >> PURNENDU SHUKLA: What time? >> BS JAVA: Tomorrow at 8 o'clock, 8 to 10. Normal, Saturday decision.  >> PURNENDU SHUKLA: Okay, so miss you only will be covering in 10, 11 12, the rest. All >> BS JAVA: Yeah.  >> PURNENDU SHUKLA: you won't be coming, right?  >> BS JAVA: Probably, no, we'll see. If you get time will do. >> PURNENDU SHUKLA: No, no in future sessions.  >> BS JAVA: Yeah, and saying that? Yeah. We'll see on Tuesday and not very sure about that. Okay.  >> PURNENDU SHUKLA: Okay.  >> ARYAN THAKUR: On.  >> PURNENDU SHUKLA: One. >> BS JAVA: Yeah, yes, I'll talk to the team. Yeah.  >> ARYAN THAKUR: I'm and if possible please notify at least 24 hour before that if the exam is going to happen then this time and  this day because I'm regularly checking the meals after six and eight hours, it is not coming. But if it comes at least  12 to 14 hours before the exam so that I can be prepared. That this is my time to exam.  >> BS JAVA: Okay, okay. Yeah.  >> PURNENDU SHUKLA: Remember, one more question, I was allotted like 30th was my day for the OTP  examination. I gave it but now 60 is also there so miss can I give that because 