First Normal Form, Today we're going to discuss the First Normal Form. So what is the rule for the first normal form? According to the EF codd. Guys, EF codd is the Father of DBMS. According to them, The rule of First Normal Form is Table should not contain any Multivalued Attribute. Means, in a table, There should not be a single attribute in which more than one value exist for a single particular person. Like if I have a student table. I put the roll number, name and course in it. Now roll number 1 SAI, C and C++ What is the meaning of that? Sai has registered in C & C++ both courses Yes it is posible. That a student has enrolled in more than one course. But here my motive is that how to represent it,  representation is wrong. We cannot represent like this Because there is more than
one value here for a student Apart from courses, their can be address. Adderes, more than one value of a student. Phone number can be more than have two Values. So if we look at this table here. So I can clearly say this table is. Not in first Normal Form  because course. Who is having problem here, in course. because there is more than one value for Sai and even for Omkar, There is more than one value. So that, even if a single course, a single attribute  in your table Whose value is more than one exist So you can clearly say that table is not in First Normal Form So in GATE, if you get such representation of the table, So you can clearly write that No, the table is not in First Normal Form The next question comes that How to convert this table  into first normal form? We have three solutions for that. One by one check all the solution. The first solution is Draw the table or you can say create the table like this Roll number. Name. & course. Attribute. The same attributes which are here, I have written the same
three attributes there. But how we will insert the row? 1  Sai  C  And  1  Sai  C++ I converted it into two rows. 2  Harsh  JAVA 3  Omkar  C 3  Omkar  DBMS So now representation will be like this. So I divided the table like that. A row which is a roll number,  I have written it multiplied times. If you are asked that what will be the primary key in this table? What can become the
primary key in this table? So guys, you can clearly check that  Values are repeating in the roll number, So it can not be the primary key The name is also cannot be the primary key. Course. Yes, can be, what course alone cannot be a primary key. Because C & C values are repeating over their. But if i combine roll number and course, then definitely it will be the primary key. So the primary key, if I mention here separately then primary key will be Roll number. course. Combined, which we called composite primary key. So this is the first representation like that The Second Representation will be, the same table, Same table we are representing like that Like Roll Number Name of the student. course. Now guys, in the courses I know that what is the maximum value of the course. Means, maximum number of
courses a student is enrolled in.  So here, a student is enrolled in maximum two courses. So I make two Separate columns here. One is Course One and One is Course two. So roll number one. Sai  C & C ++. Roll number two, Harsh JAVA Now the important part is What Will Be the Course two for Harsh? So he is not registered in the course two So that value will be null. Null means Empty. It's Not Zero Actually, null Means Not Available, the Value is not existing over there. So you have to left it empty. So three, omkar C & DBMS. So this will be the Second Kind of. Representation. So in this you can be asked what can be the primary key? The same Question, what can be the primary key in this table? So the primary key directly
can be your roll number. Only roll number alone can be a primary key So we can say that it is simple primary key, that is a roll number. But if you see in this, then what the problem is there can be possible that a student. Enrolled in N number of course & another student enrolled in only one course. So what will happen guys, Now, for one you're writing columns again and again, you are writing N Number of columns. & there will be some values for that as well. But There will also be a student who is enrolled in only one course. But what you will write, Null. So if you represent the Null here so many times in overall table. Then there will be more number of nulls in the representation. So which is not a good representation. So you can represent in third format. Third format will be Like We divide this table into two tables. One is a base table. In the base table, We can have Roll number. and name. In the roll number, like roll number one, Sai. Roll number two, Harsh. Roll number three, Omkar. And there will be one Referencing table Or another table that table will contain Roll number and course. So roll number one. Course Will be C. One C ++ Two, Java. Three, C and three, DBMS so if here is the base table Why we are calling it a base table Because in this the primary key will exist that is the roll number. So the roll number will exist as a primary key. Here we are calling it referencing in table why is it, because this roll number here Working as a foreign key It's here as a foreign key, from where will you get the reference? As we already know That foreign key always takes
the reference from the primary key. So in this table above
primary key is roll number. So this will take the reference from this. And here if you want to see what will be the primary key. So roll number and course
combined will be the primary key. so I can represent here below that primary key of this table will be Roll number and there is no foreign key in this  because this is a base table. But here What will be the Primary key Roll number. course. Combined. And What will be the Foreign key? Foreign key will be roll number which will take the referemce from the Roll Number of Base table. So you can represent it like this If you want to see, if a student enrolled in N number of courses, then you can easily
enter the values over there. But in the base table, for that student, there will be only one entry. So this is the good representation of the First normal form. That means, if you have any table you can convert it into first
normal form in three ways. So these Three method You can implement one by one and you can compare them. Thank you.