Hello everyone this is Aman Aggarwal so guys finally most awaited most demanding video is live now cognizant interview questions one shot so guys your recent technical assessment of cognizant has been done and all the students have been shortlisted there all of you students will go for the interview round now your technical interview will be done so guys in today's one shot we will have the summary of all of you which will be given to you. You can appear in the interview of Cognizant. They are going to cover all the technical interview questions. So guys, for a long time, I was getting mails that brother, come up with Cognizant interview one shot. There were a lot of comments on many videos asking all of you students to come up with Cognizant interview one shot. So guys, finally after giving a lot of efforts, one shot has come for all of you students. Now it is your job. It is your job to You have to give 100% of your efforts, you have to watch the video till the end, do not skip in the middle, all the students who are starting this video, I am telling all the students before starting, only if you are able to see this complete one shot, only then you can start the video. This one shot is going to be of one to two hours, it is going to be a one shot of approximately one hour and you have to give it comfortably for one to one and a half hour, prepare well. All the things that I am telling you have to be done, you just have to understand them, so you all have to listen very carefully with open ears, if you watch this one shot completely, then my guarantee is my assurance, it is going to help you all the students a lot in your Cognizant interview, so after watching this video, you will not need to watch any other video, whether you are going for JNC profile, whether you are going for JC Pro, whether you are going for JC Next. All of you students are going to see this one shot, just look at all the students, for Jain people, it is going to be complete one shot and JC Pro and JC Next, students of all profiles, you have to see complete one shot but it is going to be additional for JC Pro and JC Next, so at the end of the video, I will tell you on what things you have to pay additional attention like JC Pro and JC Next because a little bit lighter for you guys. Some advanced level questions can also be asked . I am speaking for JC Pro and JC Next Profile. I will tell you at the end of the video what else you have to prepare. You have to see the complete one shot. You have to prepare because these questions are very important questions which have been asked in every profile, so let's start the video without any delay and end as many students have now. You have not subscribed to the channel till now, so guys, subscribe the channel right now. As soon as I upload my next video, all of you students will get instant notification, so turn on the notification bell icon too, so let's start the video. The first question is question number one tell me about yourself. Now this question is a most important question. Okay, all the students are watching the video. I am speaking again and again very carefully. You all do not need to write down the notes in any pen and paper. All of you students just have to listen carefully. If you listen carefully, whatever I am telling you will easily get saved in your long term memory. Your only job is that you have to listen to the video carefully to understand the things that I am telling. If you have any doubt anywhere, then stop the video in between and write in the comment section. You can ask your doubt, so the first question is tell me about yourself and this question will not be asked only by your Cognizant company, whether you are going for a startup, whether you are Amazon, Google, Microsoft, you are going for any company, every company will ask you this question, okay tell me about yourself, introduce yourself, brief about yourself, this type of question will ask you. It will come, it will definitely come. Now within this question, this question is for your introduction, how much do you know about yourself, what is your technical knowledge. Many students think that this is just a normal introduction, but this is not a normal introduction. Here your confidence is also seen, the interviewer who will be sitting in front of you will check this thing that how much confidence is there in this person. How well do you tell about yourself, so these four points have to be kept in mind. If all of you students keep these four points in mind, then you will easily complete the introduce yourself part. You will give your introduction first. Introduce Yourself with Your Full Name Now whatever your full name is, it means your name plus your sir name like Aman Aggarwal is ok so you have to tell your complete full name. Ok whatever is your name you have to tell your name and what many students do is their mother's name and their father's name. All of you students do not have to give all these extra details. You are only being asked about yourself. So only you all the students should give your full name. I have to tell about this, I have also done mock interviews of many students. During the mock interviews, I have seen these things that they mention their mother's name, their father's name in their interview. You do not have to include all this. Next is highlight your education background. Now whatever is your current education, whether you are doing B.Tech, whether you are doing M.Tech or whatever you are doing, you have to tell your education background. Okay, highlight your technical. Skills Now the third part is the most important part. Now every student knows some programming language, whether it is Java, C, Python or C++, it can be any programming language in which you can comfortably code. You have to tell that programming language about which you have knowledge. You have to take the name of that programming language in the introduction. If you have knowledge of Java, then you can say I have a If you have depth knowledge in Java programming language, if you have depth knowledge in Python, then you can say that I have a depth knowledge in Python programming language. C++ is also available, so you can say that I have a depth knowledge in C++ programming language. After that, if you have done questions on DSA or questions on coding, then you have to tell me all the coding questions that you have done. I have done 200 plus problems on Various Coding Platforms Like Lead Code Code Sources, Whichever platform you have done coding questions on, this is your technical part. Now after that you can tell a little about your project that I have done two projects on various like HTML, CSS, JavaScript, React JS, so by doing this you can give your introduction and last highlight your achievements. If you have any achievements, then you can use them in the introduction. In the end, you can tell that now many students ask that brother, should you tell your strength and weakness in the introduction, so I will recommend to all the students, no, all of you students do not have to tell the strength and weakness in your introduction because if your interviewer asks you, then he will ask you the next question that what are your strength and weakness, then you have to tell but in the part of your introduction. You do not have to tell me about your technical knowledge, your coding knowledge and about your project in the part of your introduction. You have to tell me very briefly about your project and this introduction part should be wrapped up within 2 minutes because look, the interviewer also gets bored, he takes so many interviews within a day, so he gets bored, so you have to wrap up your introduction part within 2 to 3 minutes, so this is very quick. I have tried the questions very well so that all of you students have understood and now do not make any mistake at all if you are sitting for the interview of any company, this is not only for Cognizant because this question is in general question. Now move to the next question Question number two is how to explain a project in technical interview. Now these two questions are such that you 100% Every student will be asked a part of your introduction and a part of your project. After that we will move on with our entire flow whether we will do oops or we will do operating system questions. All the interview questions are from the concept of your Cognizant. We are going to cover all the main interview questions from the point of view of Cognizant. In this one shot, you just have to watch carefully whatever. If you feel doubtful, I am sitting for all the students. You can comment in the comment section. How to explain a project in technical interview. Now this question is the most frequent. There are chances from every student. There is a probability that you will be asked about the project. Now here, whether you have made two projects or three projects, it does not matter to you guys how many projects you have made, you have to explain the project in which you have made. There is depth knowledge, if you do what many students do, they will copy paste from Github, they will copy paste from YouTube, so if you people have also copy pasted, I am not saying that you people have copy pasted and even after that you are telling like this, I want to say this. That if you have also done copy paste then you should have knowledge of it. If you have used any functionality then you should know about Atlist. If you are doing copy paste then read that project, what is its working, are you feeling stuck, what will I tell in the interview, so you should know all these things. So, you should know all these things. It is not that you picked up a copy and pasted it from the get up and just put it inside your resume. Now inside this question, there are some points like this. You have to take your flow by doing this. First of all, introduce the project. Suppose any of your project is on web development, so first of all tell about your project in one to two lines that this is my project. Suppose yours is a calculator app. For example, have you created a calculator app or have created a calculator website. So first of all tell about the calculator that this is my calculator app, it will do your addition and subtraction. It performs multiple operations, after that describe the project modules. Now whatever project modules you have created, whether you have designed the part of the front end or you have created turns on it, those project modules are now within 4 minutes. I am telling you the timing of each question because this is something that we have to take care of. Sometimes what we do is that when we tell about the project, we go into too much depth but this should not be done in 4 minutes. The maximum is that you have to tell about your project within three to 4 minutes. Okay, you have to tell the end important information there, it is not that you are telling absolutely every single thing there, the end project part or you are wrapping up within 8 to 10 minutes, so all these things will not work, all these things have to be avoided. Wrap up within three to four minutes. Describe the project modules which are important modules. You have to discuss that particular project modules that you have used within your project. After that detail the purpose and function of the project. What was your purpose when you created this project? What was its purpose? Talk about the tech stuck you used. Now whatever technology you have used, whether it is your web development, whether it is your app development, whether it is machine learning, whether it is data science, whatever technology you have used. Here we have to tell you about that technology. After this explain your contribution to the project. Now what many students do is that they make their project in the team. And if you are making it in the team, even if you have not made it within the team, then I will tell you that please say in the interview that you have made it in the team. Then you can tell that I have worked in the back end and my teammates have worked in the front end, so you can tell me your particular contribution. You have to tell because whenever the interviewer will ask you a project, how to explain a project, this is this question, he will tell me about your project, so there he will definitely look at your team work skills. The last point is to highlight your team work skills, so if you have worked within a team, you will definitely get an additional point. Mention challenges and how you overcame them. You can tell about your challenges. You can tell anything inside it , whether you had many errors, you solved them, it is okay or time management, 9 to 5, we go to college and all our time goes in that, so we worked on Saturday and Sunday, so you can tell all these things under the challenges and how you overcame them, that is also an additional point, you have to tell, so these are some points, you have to keep this in mind, if you Keeping your flow in mind, you will get 100% selection. Okay, now move to the question number three, what are local and instance variables? Now you will know in the programming language, there is a local variable, there is an instance variable, so let me tell you what is the difference between these two variables. There is a major difference between local variable and instance variable. Local Variable These variables are declared with in a method. Now what is this method? All the students of Java will know it, but for those of C++ and Python, I will tell you about the method. We call the function a method. It is okay inside Java which is Java programming language. We call the function within it a method. Okay, this much has been understood. Okay, done, these variables are Declared with in a method Now whenever you are creating a method, if inside that method, inside that function Are you using any variable? All of you students will know the variable, so we call it local variable. I am explaining it with the example: Int Area. All of you students have created a function with the name Area. Now I used it here: Int Length, Int Breadth, Int Rectangle Area. So what is this? What is Length? Length is a variable. What is Breadth? Breadth is a variable. What is Rect Area? is also a variable, so these are all the variables I use inside a function. Take care of this thing inside the function. Inside the function with in a method. You can see here. With in a method. Any variable you use inside a function, you use it inside a method, so we call it local variable. It is clearly written here that local variable is length as well as breath and this is also fine, so this is What is our local variable? So local variable, all of you students must have understood it. Now let's go to the instance variable. Brother, what is instance variable? This is the most important question. I am telling it again and again. Now, recently, Jain profile within the 2024 batch, Jain Next, this interview question was asked on both these profiles. So this is an important question. And sometimes what happens is that your questions are repeated, like in many interviews, we will see the same questions in 2023 and in 2024, and in 2025 also the same questions, so questions are repeated quite often, so definitely read these questions. What is an instance variable? These variables are declared inside a class but outside a method constructor. And block is known as instance variable. Now what we read earlier about local variable was what was there in it. If we are using any function inside any method, then we used to call it as local variable but if I am inside a class then you are using it. Suppose my class is A and I have used a variable int as here. After that I created a function called fun and Then now you will be able to see one thing, this variable is int age, this is my instance variable, as you can see here, the instance variable should be inside the class, these variables are declared with in a class, inside the class, but the condition is outside a method, outside the function, so here you can see, this age variable is inside the class but outside the function, if we use it inside the function, it will become ours. We will use local variable outside the function and inside the class. We will call it instance variable. So hope you have understood the difference very well, what is local variable and instance variable. Guys now move to the question number four why do we need. Oops. Now all of you students know that oops, the interviewer is going to ask you a lot of questions and oops one such. The concept is that if you do not know this then you will get rejected in 90% of the interviews because you people are going to watch your upcoming interviews, whether it is of Cognizant or of any company, boredom has a crucial role there and questions of boredom will definitely be asked from you 100%, so first of all we should know that if we are reading about boredom, so first of all we should know that what is boredom? Why was there a need? Object Oriented Programming is useful for breaking down complex systems into smaller ones. Now here we are understanding one thing that what work was done by boredom, that our big problem was a complex problem, what to do with it, divided it into small pieces, created it into a smaller problem, made it a component, C1 C2 C3 C4, now sometimes you must have seen that a very A big problem comes in front of us, so if we want to solve it, then how can we solve it? If we divide it into components, if we divide it into small pieces, then solving it becomes more reliable. That's why boredom came into the market. So boredom came for this reason. What did boredom do? Break down the complex system into smaller, more manageable components. This make It is easy to develop, maintain and modify software. With its help, we are able to easily develop, easily maintain and easily modify our software. Oops also helps it ensure code reusability and data security. Now Oops, has it helped? There is a pillar inside Oops. Now inheritance has a main and important function, that is reusability. Now when You guys have created a class A and a class B. Now in inheritance What happens now, I am going to explain to you in depth further. Now we can directly use the functions of this class and the data members of this class. In Class B, so what is the benefit for us, we did not have to write the same repetitive code again and again. That's why code usability. So what happened here is code usability. We wrote the code once, we were able to reuse it again. And data security, so it works to secure the data. Oops, so. That's why oops in the market, so this is a very important question, do the question very carefully, you will watch the complete video along with me, you will understand everything and now we are going to talk about PDF also, first once we see question number five, after that I am going to tell you how to get the PDF of this one shot, what are the access specifiers, what is their significance question. Five Most Most Common Access Specifiers All of you students must have heard the name of this word and what is its function? Access specifier as the name suggests are a special type of keywords which are used to control and specify the accessibility of entities like class method etc. Once we see the definition then I will tell in depth what is its meaning. Sum of the access specifier and access modifier include private public etc so access. What is a specifier? Access specifier is a special type of keyword with the help of which we are able to do what we are able to do, we are able to give accessibility, we are able to control whatever our methods are. For example, you have created a method named Function, you have created a method named Function, now what accessibility is to be given to this function method, what is its status. Let me explain to you directly, am I going to make it private, am I going to make it public, am I I am going to make it default, so this is its accessibility, I will decide, if I make it private, so this my function will work privately, with in the class will work, but if I make it public, so I will be able to access it anywhere and in any class, I will be able to use it, so it is public, so it is public, it will be private for everyone, so with in the class will work, so what does this accessibility define, access specifier, so different types of access Specifiers are public private, you must have heard the name, public private default, what are ours, these are our access specifiers and one more access specifier is which is protected so public private protected, I write here and default, what are these, these are my access specifiers, remember these names, now let's talk that brother, we will have to revise before our interview, so brother, please give me the PDF for free. How are you going to get the PDF? I will tell that to all the students and see, now your upcoming interview is mock interviews. And see, your interviewer will take a resume from you, so that you do not have any mistake in that resume, get your resume reviewed. Now I am going to tell you how you can get the resume reviewed absolutely free and you will get the PDF absolutely free. Now let's move towards PDF, brother, how can we take PDF for our interviews. Look. Now your placement journey has started from a long time and many students get rejections due to the fact that there are so many mistakes in their resume. I have reviewed the resumes of many students and have seen the resumes of many students but many students think that their resume is perfect but still there are many mistakes in their resume. So guys, I am telling you all the students. I am telling you that it is not going to cost you any money, absolutely free of cost, you can get your resume reviewed here, you will get the link inside the description and now I am going to tell you about the PDF, so here you will find many experts, you can go to anyone's profile and as you go to the profile, you will get a section of resume review, here you can see ₹, absolutely free, your resume will be reviewed, now you have an interview inside Cognizant. Or you have an interview in any company, there you will give your resume, so it should be absolutely perfect, so whatever mistakes you make, they will tell you, with its help you can make changes in your resume and show your resume, so here you have to take your time and slot, go to the confirmed details. Okay, what will happen after that, after that, pay name, email, call about, okay, and pay here, your session will be booked absolutely free for ₹. Okay, these are the things you have to read. Now let's talk about the PDF, as you will scroll down, inside service based mock interviews, you will get your brother's profile. Aman Agarwal, you have to go and as you will come here, you will get this PDF. Cognizant Interview Questions PDF can be gabbed absolutely freely. You can gab it for ₹. Log and One Click Referral Template: If you want to take referral within any company, then you can do that too. You will be able to get referral in just one click. Here, a list has been made of the software engineers of every company, so all of you students should take this. And one to one mock interviews which is most frequent, so guys, quite a lot of students have already got their mock interviews conducted, many from Cognizant too. Currently, I am conducting mock interviews of students. These mock interviews help a lot of students in cracking the interview. Now it is your turn. If you guys want to conduct your mock interview and one more important thing is this mock interview, like here you can see right now, it is going to be one to one, one to one, I will be there, I will take your mock interview and you guys have to give the interview with your complete practice here. Whatever feedback you get, I will tell you that by taking this feedback, you can give a very good level of performance in your main interview, so what are you waiting for, just keep a one to one meet for ₹ 149 for you guys, this one to one interview round, I am guaranteeing it is going to help a lot, so there is a link in the description, take the PDF, get the resume reviewed and do mock interviews. Now many students will say that Brother, you are selling your session if you feel the need then you can take it but if you do not feel the need then don't take it. I am telling many students that as many students feel under-confident as many students have problems during the interviews, that problem will disappear from here because here your confidence level will get boosted and this confidence level will help you a lot in your main interview. If you are going to do it, then guys, there is a link inside the description, go take the PDF and resume review. Most of the mock interviews are going to help you a lot, as I told all the students, so if you want to be conducted, there is a link inside the description, you can get conducted. Okay , now move to the question number six, what are the main features of Oops. Now this question is very important, but it will be directly asked to you like this. But you will also be asked about these: Inheritance, Encapsulation, Polymorphism, Abstraction. Now you might be thinking that brother, you have just told the names but you have not told about them, so don't worry, now we are going to understand things in each question, now we will also study inheritance, after that, encapsulation, after that, polymorphism, after that, abstraction, so watch the video till the end, only then you will understand everything. There are many students in between. Those students who skip from the middle get rejected because what do such students do? They will go to 10 videos and after reading 2-2-3 minutes from 10 videos, they will just think that my practice will be complete. You people have to read a book but have to read it well, so this one shot has been made for the reason that you listen to things in a focused manner for one to one and a half hour, if you listen then only if you listen, not this. I am telling you that you have to study in great depth, whatever things I am telling you, you will listen to them whenever you take easy selection in Cognizant because all these questions will be asked to you there when you will have an interview. After the interview, mail me and tell me that yes brother, these are the questions that came, okay, what are the main features of Oops, Inheritance, Encapsulation, Polymorphism, Abstraction, so these four. Pillars, every student will know their name Inheritance Encapsulation Abstraction Polymorphism But I will tell you how to answer it during the interviews. Now we suggest that 100 students have gone for the interviews. We suggest that 100 students have gone for the interviews. But now the selection will be of a limited number of students, like 40 to 50 students. We suggest for selection. Now it happens, what strategy will be different for these students, I will tell you, see whenever you are asked about Inheritance Encapsulation Polymorphism Abstraction, I have seen it in mock interviews also, whenever I take mock interviews, you just tell the definition. Yes, but along with this, you people also have to tell real world example. If you do not know real world example, then you can tell any one technical example, but it is necessary to tell you either technical example or real world example and these are those 40 to 50 students who are selected, they explain it with an example and when you explain with an example. So the interviewer understands that the person sitting in front of him has a good knowledge. So now one by one I am going to tell you the definition and about each pillar and I am going to explain it with an example. Now let me tell all the students one by one about each pillar. Now move to the question number seven What do you mean by inheritance Inheritance is a most Pillar is, all of you students must know about it. Inheritance is a fundamental concept in object oriented that allows one class to inherit properties and behaviors from another class. Ok this promotes code class and hierarchical relationships between classes. Now we have understood the definition but now we have to understand how inheritance works in reality. Let me tell you with an example . After that, we will also understand a real world example. First, let me tell you a technical example. Let me tell you with a code. One is my class A, here we have created a function, I have created any function named Suppose Fun and one I have created a class B. Now what happens when I am creating the second class B, so here I have to use Extends. Whenever we have to implement inheritance, there we have to use Extends. Keyword extends Class A Now as soon as I did this, what is the benefit that now whatever code I had written here, whatever properties and behaviours, whatever methods and attributes I had created, I can use them directly inside class B, so all of you students must have come to know that I have created only one class A and inside that I have created my methods, I have created some attributes but with the help of inheritance, as soon as I I create a second class B, directly used a word extends and I can directly use the function inside this class, so I wrote the code once but I was able to use it , this work also works inside the second class. Your inheritance is where we can inherit some properties of one class. Inside the second class, this process is known as inheritance. And now many interviewers ask you that brother inheritance, so you have made it, okay inheritance. Okay, the example has also been told but why do we need inheritance or what is the main working of inheritance? What is the benefit of inheritance? This is the benefit of inheritance. This is the benefit of this. Promotes Code Reasonability. You just have to answer in one word. If the interviewer asks you, what is the benefit of inheritance? Why do we need dinner tense? You have to speak. If you say this word Code Reasonability, then you will accept that you have been double ticked, brother, this one has to be taken, he knows all the things, what is the meaning of Code Reasonability, the meaning of Code Reasonability is that I have created a class, created some functions inside it, now I am not rewriting that code, I am not able to directly reuse that code, now what is happening here that I have created this function, I am able to use it directly with the help of inheritance. Your technical exam is done. Now let's talk about the real world exam. Now inside the real world exam, the parent and child are there. You know the parent and the child. You have already read the example. You must have read the data structure. You must have read the oops. You must have heard the example in the oops. Now, what happens to the children? What is the color of the eyes of the children? It is assumed that if the color of the eyes of their parent is brown. So their child's eye color is also brown or their hair color is brown, so their child's hair color is also brown. Why does this happen? These are inheritances. What is the child? We already bring some of the properties of our parents within us. Okay, so this example of parent-child is the best example of inheritance. So you can tell this example. In technical terms, I have told you one. Created a class A, created a class B, created some functions, created some attributes, inside class A, now many students think, brother, what is a method? Functions are called methods, its other name is method, just like the name of your house, the name of some such function's house is method, so we created a class A, created some functions inside it, we were able to use it directly, what is this inside class B? Inheritance is a real world example, parent child technical example, I have created two classes, I am able to inherit some properties of one class in the other class, this is known as inheritance, so our work of one pillar has been completed, we have done this, inheritance has been understood in the box, now let's move on to the next question, question number at what do you mean by encapsulation. What is encapsulation brother? Inheritance Encapsulation Polymorphism Abstraction These are the four pillars. Assume that these are the four pillars of the building. By adding these pillars we form a building whose name is Oops so these pillars. If we know and there is 99% chance that every student will be asked about these pillars. It is possible that some student will be asked about inheritance. It is possible that some student will be asked about inheritance. Ask about abstraction but you should know these pillars. Now what is encapsulation? Without wasting any time, there is no need to waste time. We have to learn things very carefully and I am telling you these things that you have to implement. What is encapsulation? Encapsulation is one of the core principles of object oriented programming. It refers to the bundling of data and methods. What is a core encapsulation? We know the principle of object oriented programming is that it refers to bundling of data and methods that operate on the data into a single unit. Many students may not have understood this language. I write a simple language called wrapping up of a data into a single unit. You can also directly tell this definition in your interview. Now what does it mean? Now this is the pen with me. Now let me explain inside this pen. There will be a lot of processing, now this is a technical pen, like I can write it on my iPad, so what is this inside, there are buttons here too, now what happened in this, you people are able to see this pen, you are not able to see the internal process, so what happened is encapsulated, wrapping up of data inside a single unit, what is the unit, this is my pen, look carefully, this pen is a unit, this is my pen, the flow of data inside it, it was wrapped, what was done inside it. Wrap Okay, now what is the best example of this, that last, all of you students, first the technical example, now you can also tell the pen inside the real world example, I will tell one more example but let me tell you a technical example, you created a class, inside the class you created methods and attributes, you created methods, you created attributes, what did you do, what is class, my class is a single unit, single unit method and Attributes are my data, wrapping up of a data into a single unit, so you took this data, created these methods, created these attributes, you have wrapped them, what you have done inside the class, you have wrapped it, by wrapping it, a unit of mine has been created whose name is Class A Single Unit. So much work has been understood. Now let me tell you a real world example. Your bag inside the real world example. When whatever is your college bag, you know that you also have a pen inside the bag. You also keep a notebook, you keep all your necessities inside the bag, so what is a bag, bag is a unit, pen, notebook, what is data, so bag is the best example of encapsulation, you can tell anything, there are many such real world examples which you can tell, okay, so we have understood encapsulation, so we have done on encapsulation, now let's talk about polymorphism, brother. What is Polymorphism What is Polymorphism Polymorphism is composed of two words Poly Which means Many Look Polymorphism is broken into two words One Poly is one Morph OK Poly means Many Morph means Shapes in as much detail as I am explaining If anyone can explain to you then it is okay to tell but see it is 100% effort from my side I am giving full effort in a good way so that you can You should understand but as many students are understanding focusedly, best of luck to all of you students but as many students are not understanding focusedly, I would like that you too get selected in the interview, so please guys, all the students, understand focusedly and watch the complete video till the end, only then you will be able to cover the relevant questions, so understand carefully what I am telling you, understand it, if there is any doubt, comment section for you guys, inside the comment section you can You can comment, if you want interview experience, then you can tell in the comment section, I will cover the interview experience of every profile like Jainsi Pro Jain Next, okay don't worry channel. Subscribe, I say again and again, so many efforts are given for all the students, so guys, please do subscribe to every student's channel. Morph means shapes. Poly means many, many shapes. What is the meaning of this whole word, many shapes. Have you understood so much? Many shapes there for polymorphism referred to something that has many shapes. Now an example of this. What is the supposition, you create a function and what we did here is that we used two variables a and b and returned a + b. Can I create another function, this is also called function overloading. Yes, I can create another function of the same name but with different number of arguments. If you have taken two arguments here, then in the second function you create, you should take three, four, but not two or you can change their data type. Do it, so here I took ab, here I took abc, so here there were two number of arguments, here it became three, abc returned a + b + c, now made another function abcd, now returned a + b + c + d, now you guys are able to see one thing that the name of the function is one, the function is one but you guys are able to see here, what is happening here, function overloading is happening and the same function is working differently here. Pay is returning two variables means it is returning the sum of two variables Here Pay is returning the sum of three variables And here Pay is returning the sum of four variables So this is known as Polymorphism Means Manishape Now if you people might not have understood from the technical example, then let me explain a real world example to all of you students, suppose you are a person, this is a person, okay this is a Now this person is a person, if he is inside the school, then his behavior will be different from his class teacher, but in the case of his friend, his behavior will be different with him, you talk to your friend in a different zone, you talk in a different language and you talk to your teacher in a different language, same way you talk in front of your parents , you talk in a different zone in front of your parents, it is okay whenever you talk to your parents. You talk to your mom and dad, you have one language, you have one pronunciation, it is different as compared to your friend or you go to a party, there you have a different behavior, you have a different nature, so in the same way, one person has generated many of his shapes, okay brother, there will be a different shape in front of the parents, there will be a different shape in front of the teacher, there will be a different shape in front of the student friend. Shape will be there and will be a different show in front of its relatives. So this is known as polymorphism, so this is a perfect example. Real world example is a technical example of polymorphism. Functional overloading, you will tell it, so it is going to be the best. Now move to the last pillar abstraction. Now we have seen the inheritance. Real world example has also been explained in a good way. Technical example also. Encapsulation done, real world example of encapsulation explained, technical example also explained, polymorphism also done, then last and main pillar which is main main main pillar abstraction, now what is this abstraction, if you understand the abstraction very carefully then your work will become very easy because this is the most frequent question inside Cognizant. Jain C. Jassi Next Jassi Pro Questions have been asked for each profile and now you all students have to watch the video till the end because inside Jassi Next and Jassi Pro, like I told in the beginning, there are some different things which you have to read separately, what are they, I am going to tell you at the end of the video, this will remain yours, it will remain a complete one shot, but at the end of the video, I will tell you some different things which will help you in Jassi Next and Jassi Profile. It is asked ok what is abstraction in oops now question number 10 is most important what is abstraction brother abstraction is one of the fundamental principles of object oriented programming that focuses on hiding the implementation detail and exposing only the essential features of an object now what is the meaning of abstraction what will it do it will show only the necessary details to the user The necessary detail which is useful to the user will show that detail and the unnecessary detail which is not useful to the user. What will it do? It will hide it. Only show the necessary detail. What will it do? Remember this much on the construction that it will show the necessary detail and hide the necessary detail. So this is a best example. Okay, I would have told you the example. If I talk about the example, there are many of its examples. Like the example of a car, you are driving a car and you just pressed your accelerator there, pushed your accelerator but you do not know the internal working of the same car, this is a very old example, the example of ATM, the example of ATM is a bit new example, now like you enter inside the ATM with PIN PIN. First of all, what do you enter, cash flow, how many rupees you have to withdraw, suppose I have to withdraw ₹ 2000, so first of all, I entered the amount there, then after this you have to enter your PIN, as you enter the PIN, now the main process will come, as we enter the PIN, our cash comes, cash withdrawal comes, now the cash will come to you, but what is the internal working, how he withdrew the money from inside, not to all of you students. And it is not necessary for any user to know that. This is an unnecessary detail. What is the necessary detail? You will get a receipt, you will get cash flow, that is the necessary detail, we need it, we are concerned with withdrawing the money, now we are not concerned with how he withdraws the money, but there must be some internal working going on inside it, so this is a perfect example. This is a perfect example of ATM machine and is the most important question. If you do not know this question of abstraction, I am telling all the students that the probability of this question being asked by 99% of the students is very high, so understand this question with the example and for the PDF, I have told you to check the description, mock interviews have also been told, so every student has to get it done. Now move to. The Question No. 11 What is DBMS? Now we have seen some of the questions of Oops. Now we will cover the questions of DBMS. Now whether it is from Oops, whether it is DBMS, whether it is project related, all the questionable questions which have been repeated many times, which have a probability which can come in your Cognizant interview, all those questions in this one shot. I am going to cover what is DBMA, there is still some time left in the video, watch it completely, only then you will understand the good things, you will understand all the questions, so watch very carefully, watch focused, if there is any doubt, comment section is for you people, you can comment inside the comments, whatever doubt you have, you can ask, now what is DBMS brother, DBMS means Database Management System, Database is a Database Management System, DBMS is one of ours. It is a software system. Now what is its function? Its function is to create and manage the database. Now let me tell you an example. I will tell you everything with an example. Like if you have a college, there will be a database of your college in which every student will have an entry. His branch name will be okay. His department will be that which department are they from, so I assume that this is the database of your college. A B C D. It will be a very big database because there is a very high number of students. If you are inside a college, there will be a huge database of so many students and there will be a database engineer who will manage your DB. Now how did the database management system work? There is a software system which will create and manage that database. You must have understood this much. A DBMS enables and users to create, protect, read, update and delete data in a database. Now what can you do with the help of a DBMS, you can also create. You can also read, you can update and you can also delete. The requirement on S is that you guys are now in the final year, like your final year will be completed, you will pass out, so now so many entries are deleted after every 4 years, like when you pass out, all your entries will be deleted because it will be such a big database, it becomes a bit heavy to handle it, okay, so it will be deleted as and when required. And information update is suggested, right now your current number is someone else What is the function of database management system? It creates and manages the database. What can the end user do? It can also create and read. Can update as well as delete Now move to the question number 12 Explain different language present in DBMS Guys most most important question and the question on which I put most most important question is actually most important now this question will not be asked in this language so brother why have you mentioned it again now I I will tell you in which language the question will be asked. You will be directly asked that brother, tell me the command of DDL. Tell me the command of DML. Tell me the command of DCL. Tell me the command of TCL. Now if you remember the commands, all the students who will remember the command will tell the command and all the students who will not remember the command, you people will not be able to tell. What is DDL? What is data definition language? What is DML? What is data manipulation language? What is DCL? What is Data Control Language Tcl? What is Transaction Control Language? First of all you guys should know the full form of DDL. DML DCL Tcl. Now every language has some commands like there are some commands of DDL. There are some commands of DML. There are some commands of DCL. There are some commands of DCL. Now what is the command of DDL? Create Alter Drop Truncate Rename. I am saying again and again in this video, my Understand things simultaneously, as I am speaking, you have to give as much effort as I am giving. I am giving you 100% assurance easily, you will crack the interview. Let me tell you again what is Create Alter Drop Truncate Rename. Create Alter Drop Truncate Rename. These were the commands of my detail: DML command Select Update Insert Delete Select Update Insert Delete DCL command Grunt End Revoke Grunt and Review Tcl command Commit Roll Back Save Point Say again Commit Roll Back Save Point I am repeating it a couple of times so that it gets saved in your long term memory and you can easily tell it in your interview. So guys, this is the most important question and there is a possibility that this question can come in your interview, so look at this question very carefully and remember each and every command. Do Now move to the question number three What is Normalization Normalization is an important topic within DBMS and many companies ask this question Normalization is a process of reducing redundancy by organizing data into multiple tables Now what is the meaning of Redundancy For example if there is a lot of redundancy inside your database, very much Duplication is ok, so we have to remove those duplicate elements, we have to reduce it, ok and organize our data. Now these are some types of normal forms like 1NF, 2NF, 3NF, BCNF, so the chances of you guys being asked in detail are a little less and if you guys want me to read in depth, 1NF, 2NF, 3NF. So about VCNF, it has been explained in the best way on Java Tea Point, you can go and read it once, 1 nf, 2 nf, 3 nf, PCNF and inside it there is one more, 4 nf, five nf, but those things will not be asked from you, you can be asked about normalization and these names , how many types have normal forms. In general, we read 1 nf, 2 f, 3 nf, 20 nf, but a little. The extended version is 4nf and 5nf. So if you people want to read in detail then you can read from Java T point. Now move to the question number 14 What are SQL Aggregate Function. Now what are the aggregate functions of SQL? The most important question is OK SQL. All of you students know that SQL plays a very important and important role. If all of you students have seen a lot of interview experience during your Cognizant interview, then you must have noticed there too that SQL questions definitely come and if you want Cognizant interview experience then please comment me on this video. Comment on this video. The more comments, the more comments you will get. Cognizant interview experience can happen very soon. It could be tomorrow, it could be the day after tomorrow. I will bring a video of Cognizant Interview Experience for you guys in which JC's Interview Experience JC Next JC Pro There will be interview experience on every profile. Now what is SQL Aggregate Functions? An aggregate function is a function that performs a calculation on a set of values ​​and returns a single value. Now there will be some calculations here, okay now when the calculations will be done. So will return a single value whether you're doing 1 + 1, you're doing 1 * 1, you're doing addition. If you are doing multiplication, if you are doing any calculation, then a single value will be generated there, so we call it aggregate function, now these are of some types like our mean max count sum average and you can be asked directly, interval mean max, what does mean aggregate function work, what does max aggregate function work, what does count aggregate function work, sum average can also be asked to you directly. So this is the work of the main function: It will return the smallest value with in the selected column. Whatever column you have selected, it will bring you exactly one minimum and return the smallest value. Max returns the largest value. It will return the largest value. Returns the count in the selected column. Returns the number of rows in a set. Sum returns the total sum. Average returns the average value of a numerical column. So this is most common. You should read each and every aggregate function question. I have told all the students that you will revise the PDF once, just like you take a PDF. It is going to take 10 to 15 minutes, but many students make this mistake, they do not revise. Unless you revise it yourself, it will not be saved in long term memory, so please watch the video till the end. As soon as the video ends, as I told you, take the PDF. Within 10 to 15 minutes, you can revise everything which I told you, you can do quick revision from the PDF. Now move to the question number 15 and this question is the last question. After this, I am going to tell you what the students of Cognizant Jisi Next Jisi pro have to study in detail. You have to study this but separately and what else do you have to study. There may be extra questions from you because the package of Jassi Next and Jassi Pro is also different but the package is good, their age comparison to Gency profile, so you will have to read a little more, if you are getting more money, then you will have to read more, what will you have to read, I will tell you what are the joints and type of joints, so this is going to be a very big question because we are going to cover in depth, all the joints, inner joint, left joint, right joint. Full Outer Join I am going to cover all the joins in this question. A join clause is used to combine rows from two or more tables based on related columns between them. What is join clause? What is the function of join clause? Join clause combines rows from two or more tables. This is my table, this is my table one, this is my table two. Now the function of join clause is What will happen is it will combine the data in two or more tables based on the related column between them. Okay, its related column is any one related column. Suppose there is ID here too and there is ID here too, so what will it do with that related column. So, you know the work of join, butt join. So you know the work of join. You will be asked this direct question. You can be asked about their types. Okay, about inner join. It can be asked that what is inner join, what is left join, what is right join, let me tell you what questions can be asked from you, inner join, left join, right join query, query can also be asked from you, most probably, jency profile, you can be asked the direct theoretical part, but like next and jency profile, like pro profile, you can also be asked to write query query, so I am going to tell you the query also. Now we are going to read about each join one by one. First of all what is inner join inner join. The inner join keyword select records that have matching value in watch table. Now this has become my table one. One, I will make a pictorial representation and show it so that all of you students can have depth knowledge of each join. This is my table two. Now what is the work of inner join? Matching value now matching value. There will be only this portion in both the tables, brother, this is where both the matching values ​​will be, so I have shaded this portion, this is my shaded portion, inner join, okay, this is my shaded portion, inner join matching value, inner join records that have matching value in both tables query, I will say again and again, memorize a query syntax, memorize the syntax of a join, it is going to remain the same even if you talk on the left. Whether you are talking about right join, just the name here will be changed to the same name. Syntax select column name from table one inner join table two on here comes the condition table one dot column name equal to table two dot column name. Let me tell you again select column name from table one. Selected from table one inner join table two on table one dot column name table two dot column name so please remember this syntax and especially jsi next and jsi pro There is a very high probability that from both these profiles you can write the query Now move to the left join The left join keyword written all records from the left table table one and matching records from the right table table two now I will make a pictorial representation and show it to you, so this is my T1, this is my T2 , that is, table one, table two, now all the records are required from the left table and matching records from the right table, so the left table, this is what I have considered, the left table has become mine, the left table is okay, this is mine, I have recorded mine from the left table, and the matching records from the right table, so this is also going to be ours, matching records from the right table, I have done this. Shaded So what is the shaded part? This is the shaded part. Let me tell you again the definition. Return all records. All records from the left table. Left table means left join. So all the part from the left will remain. End matching records from the right table. Syntax is going to remain exactly the same. Select column name from table one. There was inner join in it. Here we have left join table two on table one dot column name equal to two tables. Two Dot Column Name Ok Now Move To The Right Join The Right JOI Keyword Returns All Records From The Right Table And The Matching Records From The Left Table Pictorial Representation I Will Also Show All The Records From The Right Table Will Remain But Matching Records From The Left Table Once Let Me Tell You From The Pictorial Representation This Is My T1 This Is My T2 This Is My Left Table This Is My Right Table So Guys Right The whole one will remain, okay, the right one is already shaded, the right one, which is the part of the right table, you have to shade it, okay, this right one is my shade, and matching records, matching records from the left table, so this will be my matching record from the left table, this is also what you have to do in it, so this complete area, what is the shaded part, right join syntax, exactly similar, select column name, select column name from table one. Right join table two on table one dot column name equal to table two dot column name what is this my this is my condition same is going to remain our full outer join the full outer join keyword returns all records when there is a match in left left left table and right table ok this is my complete pictorial representation now from here full outer join means the complete area is going to remain Left is also complete, right is also complete, let me show you, this area will also be complete for you, brother, this area will also be complete for you , there is a match in left and right table, okay, this area will also be complete and this area will also be complete, in full outer join, all the parts are going to be covered, so complete shaded area, what is going to remain of you, full outer join syntax, let me also tell you, it is going to remain the same, select column name from table one. Full outer join table to condition on table one dot column name equal to table two dot column name so all these are joins guys I am saying again and again you are from jancy profile you are from jancy next you are from jsi pro it will not make any difference joins will definitely be asked joins are an important part of SQL understand this if you know SQL then you know joins all the joins All Types of Query Pictorial Representation All the things have been covered Inner join is done Syntax read once Everything will change Just replace inner join Left inner Sorry outer And your right Next left joint Left join We have read Right join Right join We have read full outer join also We have read so joins part is complete End video is done And but still right now You guys have to see what is going to be different in the Jisi proc. Now see, this is complete enough for Jisi. Complete one shot is enough. Now for Jisi pro, you have to do one shot, but what can be the extra questions from you. See guys, I am telling you to every student to get the resume. It is very important to get the review done according to your resume. Well, there are going to be your questions, so inside the resume. If there is any mistake, get it reviewed. Whatever your experts have told you, you can get it done for free. There is a link inside the description. Whatever your experts say that you have to change, change those things and make your perfect resume. Now, in the review, whatever you have mentioned in the project, Have you liked Machine Learning? Recently, a student of 2025 batch has a next profile like yours and a pro profile, he has recently been interviewed, so I had talked to him, I had taken his mock interviews and after that he also shared his interview experience. There is a link in the description of the email ID, you can share it on that whenever your interview is done, after that you can share your interview experience. You can do it, so what happened there, their project was MLP on Machine Learning, so now those who have Jency profile, they will not be asked in detail, but like pro and Jency Next, there is a difference within your package also, there will be a little difference in the questions as well, not all of you students will have a very hard level interview, the level of interview is going to be very easy for Jency people, easy for Jasip and Jency Next. Medium level, now inside the project, as you have mentioned, it is a machine learning project, so you will be asked about machine learning. Now your data science is a science project, so you will also be asked about Pandas Nampai, these libraries can be asked about it. Okay, the same thing is going to remain for the next one. Next ones need to put in a little more effort. You can get coding questions on array strings. During the interview, you will search on array question two sum three sum lead code, binary search sorting algorithms, most common sorting algorithms, quick sort, merge sort, insertion sort, bubble short. It is very important to do this and you should know each and every complexity, time complexity, if the interviewer asked you, time complexity of bubble short, quick short, you should know all that, so this will be advanced for you. It is going to be that whatever things have been mentioned in the question, you guys should know that questions will be asked from the project. Machine learning has been mentioned, so from there, questions will be asked about machine learning, data science has been mentioned, questions will be asked about data science, the same is going to remain like this for the next one and coding questions, you can make people do coding problems, coding problems are not going to be of very high level, Pedrom Prime. Questions of Number Armstrong Binary Search Linear Search and Array String, any of these can be asked from you, okay, so you have to do all these things, hope you like the video is complete, we have learned a lot of things in the video, questions of every single segment, every single topic have been covered, whoever is the client of all of you students, if you guys liked the video, then please like and subscribe, I will tell all the students to put in a lot of effort. To bring such top notch level content for all the students, please do subscribe our channel and turn on the notification. As soon as I upload the video, the notification will reach all of you and watch the video immediately.