Hello friends, welcome to Gate Smashers The topic is Schema in a database. Although this is very simple topic, but actually I am making a video on this topic because this term actually used in lot of areas  means you will find this term in many questions in the database & in many places you will find it written in questions. So what is schema actually, the normal definition is, schema is actually a logical
representation of the database, means when we actually store the data in hard drives or store in backends servers the physical representation of the data is something else there. Means we are storing the data in the form of file but logical representation, logical representation means, like if we talk about RDBMS Relational database management system So in relational database management system, how we represent the data logically, in form of tables, tables or we call it in form of relations. ER model in form of entities and relations? Like If I say to create schema of a student Student is an entity, its schema has to be designed. so what are your attributes in student, Means how can we design the students, what can be in the student. Student's roll number, Student's name, students address means their can be a lot of columns. We can also call it columns or addresses. Similarly, if I say course, course can be called an entity. Let say course is a table, so how can we actually design it. If i say course is a schema,  then how can we design the course, What are the columns possible in the course. Course id, There are many courses running in the university, what is their ID?, Course name, course duration, What do all these make together, a structure, alot of structures, means you can take any entity and design their structure & this is actually logical representation. Means the data in the hard disk is not actually stored anywhere in the form of such tables as student's roll number, name, address but DBMS, when the user access the data, how will they access, in form of table. And when the user manage the data,  in which form, in form of table. We saw three schema architectures, Three schema architecture has a middle layer, the conceptual schema. So what is the part of the conceptual schema that we represent the data logically, that is the main thing, What is schema, logically representing data but when we actually implementing it. So we can also actually implement it  with SQL (structured query language). How to implement like we have roll number, name, address, so roll number can be a integer, name can be ware care or character, similarly address can be a character, means we can code it. And especially in SQL, data definition language (DDL). In DDL commands, all the different commands that comes in Data Definition Language such as weather it is in create table, alter table or drop table. For whom do we actually use all these commands, to implement the schema. This is just a logical representation, its a paper representation. You can make it in paper by diagram point of view. Means in a way, we are
diagrammatically representing it. But when we actually implementing the schema, then we use this, SQL. And in SQL, we use data definition language  or data definition commands to design the schema, to actually implementing it. So this is all about actually schema. you must have seen many times, lets suppose a schema, lets suppose a table. so schema, means you can say that it is a structure, you
can take it in form of table. There can be multiple tables in a schema which are related to each other.  Means schema can be a single table or can have more than one table, that is just a collection of table. And this is just the logical
representation of the database. Thank you.