Functional dependency Functional Dependency is method which describes the relationship
between the attributes. That means if I have a lot of attributes  in my table. What is the dependency between them, what are the relationship between them that We represent through functional dependency. Okay. How? Let's see, like The general format is like X goes to Y Means, what is the meaning of X goes to Y?  It means X determimes Y X determines Y. or you can say Y is determined by X. Y is determined by X. Here X is a determinant. Means an attribute X that is determining This is the main attribute. And Y is a dependant attribute. Y is a dependent attribute. And X is a Determinant Attribute. who is determining Y. Let's see with the simple example.  Like If I have one dependency given, like SID goes to S.name Means, I wrote SID instead of X. S.name instead of Y. Now, What is this funda of functional dependency? Like if I have some value in S.name Like if I'm putting two values here. Ranjit Ranjit Means I have put some values in S.name. Ranjit & Ranjit. What was this meaning of this? Now I have a confusion here. Confusion of this what? Are these two different ranjit? Or It is the same Ranjit whose value is written twice. means, suppose in my class, here I am writing the student name in my class. Ranjit Singh & Ranjit, Ranjit & Ranjit So there were two ranjit here. So here, I may have a confusion whether there is only one Ranjit whose data is coming twice Or is it two different ranjit? So how do we remove this thing? I will go to the SID. SID is a kind of roll number. in the roll number, i saw
here it was written one. Here it was written two. Means This is ranjit whose roll number is one & this is ranjit whose roll number is two. So here my confusion is cleared that these are two different students. But there name are same. Similarly likes I take another set, ta ke another combination that if Again, I'm here, Ranjit writing two names, Ranjit & Ranjit Again same confusion Is this a student whose data has been written twice? Or these are two different students guys, when we are in class, we can easily tell by standing two guys in class and can easily examine, whether they are two different students or they are same student. But when we use the database online means the server is at somewhere else location And User is using the interfaces from the different location. So there, when calling the database online, it's very difficult to determind. Whether these are two different students Or the same students. So I went to the SID again and its written in SID one & one Means, again my confusion cleared here. This is only one student ranjit but accidentally his data, will be written twice. So that means my confusion here cleared. This is the same student, Ranjit. That means whenever you have problem in dependent variable, You go to determinant variables, attribute,  & it will clear your confusion Is it Clear? then let's see What are the different Combinations can be formed in it. Like if take the value of X and Y X and Y So in the value of X and Y, like X goes to Y So, if SID goes to S.name So four combinations, like  if I'm writing first Ranjit Ranjit. Here SID one SID one This is the case one. Case two is Ranjit, Ranjit. One Case three is Like, Ranjit. Varun, One, two These four cases have been made What i did that i kept both the values same, here also same, Both the values same here. Here are different Both the values are different, here are also different. Both the values are different,
here are same So these four cases are possible in it. So see the case number one. Ranjit, Ranjit. Now theres is a confusion, is there are same student or two different? I went to the SID It said both are same student. His data may have been
written twice by mistake. So that means my confusion has cleared So, This case is true Means this case is valid We can say, this is a valid case, This is you have to check, weather it is a valid and invalid. Yes, it is a valid Now check for this Ranjit, Ranjit. Is there one student or two students? So I went to the SID. It said roll number one and two. Ranjit, Ranjit means there are two students & Their names are by chance same. So, this case is also valid. Means, I'm getting the answer here too. Come to the third case, Ranjit , Varun Means, two students are different. As the name suggests, Ranjeet and Varun are two different students. Still, I check from the SID SID is also saying that roll number one is of ranjit & roll number two is of varun. Yes, this Case is Valid. It is also giving me the correct output Let's check for the fourth S.name,, Student name is ranjit and varun Means, there are two students here, Ranjit and varum Once again, we go to the SID But see guys, What's SID saying here? One, one Means there is only one SID SID value is one. But how the S.name can be two? When determined attribute  which is determinant, who is the main variable, main attribute It is saying there's only one student here But the dependent is saying that there are two students. This is invalid case. Invalid Because what is the student name saying? There are two students. One is Ranjit, other name is varun But what is SID is saying? SID is saying that there are only one student. So, the one who is determining If he says that there is only one student Then how the student name can say that there are
two different students here?  So this case is invalid. Many times we get questions in the GATE or in normal exams also. Where we have to check the case that Which are such cases here? So if I am saying that  the SID is determining the S.name Then, this is only the invalid case. Rest of all three are Valid cases. In this, I'm assuming that SID Iis determining the student name. Is it clear guys? So this is the important part over there. Now, the Functional Dependencies are of Two Types. One is trivial And non trivial. That also you check it once. What is trivial and non trivial. Trivial function dependency. What is trivial functional dependency. Trivial FD is if there is  any dependency is X goes to Y So Y is a subset of X. That is called a trivial. You write it down. If X goes to Y, is any of the functional dependemcy Then Y is  subset of X This is a general format, guys. You have any student ID, student name, student's father name, phone number, roll number. You can fill the value of any attribute in it. If I'm saying here. Y will be the subset of X. So what is the meaning of that? if I'm saying that SID  goes to S I D. Mean this is X, This is Y. So Y is the subset of X Yes, SID is the subset of SID So this trivial functional
dependency are always valid. They are always true. Means You don't have
to make these four cases. Because it's always valid, It is always true. Reason being is The thing we are determining, the attribute we are determining,  is a subset of the left hand side. So means, in a way, there is a reflexive property that I am determining myself. When an Attribute is Determining itself, So in that, there is no need to check the values Because it will always be Valid. There's another way to check it. If X goes to Y So if you take intersection of the left-hand side and the right hand side. If you take the intersection of
left hand side & right hand side. That will never come empty. In case of trivial functional dependency, if you take the intersection of the left hand side & right hand side, that will never come phi. Means, I'll give another example here like SID S.name goes to SID. Means created a functional dependency, SID, S.name combinedly determininh the SID, so if take the intersection of
left hand side and right hand side. Then what will come? SID So yes, it is a Trivial. It is always Valid. Now. Check for the. Non trivial Chexk for the non trivial Non trivial FD means If I'm writing X goes to Y X goes to Y Then X and Y Means Y is not a subset of X. Mean if these two If i take X Intersection y Then what will come, phi will always come. Mean, SID goes to S.name Student ID goes to Semester Student ID goes to. Phone number. Employee ID. goes to Employee Name Employee ID goes to location These are all, these are all Non trivial Functional dependency. In this if you take the intersection of left hand and right hand side. Then it will always come phi In this case, you have to check the cases. In it, you have to check the cases. & among these you
have find out which is valid or Which is invalid? Okay guys. These are some properties, please note it down.. properties of Functional dependency. Note that properties of
functional dependency. First property is Reflexivity. Reflexive, as i dicussed in the trivial What it says, If Y is a subset of X,  then X goes to Y. This is a trivial. means reflexive. An attribute. determining itself. That is called Reflexive. And guys, you don't need to check, it is valid or invalid, because it is always valid. Augmentation Augmentation means, if X goes to Y Then XZ goes to YZ, means If SID determining Student name ID of the student is
determining name of the student. So you are augment any attributes,  putting extra in it. Like, Phone number. So the student's name phone number, this is also valid. Means this is same, if SID is determining S.name Then, SID Phone number will determine S.name phone number as well. Transitive Transitive property is again
very important property. Because this is going to be used  a lot in the future. What is the transitive property? If X goes to Y and Y goes to Z Then X goes to Z Means if the student's ID is determining student's name. And The student's name is determining, like City. Then student's ID will determine the city. It's been too much used in future Transitive property. Union, if X goes to Y and X goes to Z, then X goes to YZ Means we just simply union Y & Z Decomposition, if X goes to YZ, then X goes to Y and X goes to Z But here guys, very carefully you have to check. If here I say, XY goes to Z Can we write X goes to Z. Y goes to Z No. XY goes to Z, X goes to Z, Y goes to Z is invalid because What is the meaning of this? XY together determining some Z. And you broke them, means separated the X, and Y And then you're saying that they determining Z. No This is wrong. this means that XY together determining some Z. & you've written that X alone determining Y alone determining, this is invalid. You cannot decompose the left hand side. On the left hand side you can never put a decomposition. In the right hand side, you can easily write them separately Because it means X is determining YZ. What was this meaning of this? How can you say it? X is determining YZ. So I wrote like this X is determining Y, X is determining Z This is valid. No problem but you can never decompose the left hand side. Then Pseudo transitivity, pseudo transitivity means if X goes to Y and WY goes to Z Means here X goes to Y and Y goes to Z is not there, here W extra added here. Then what they are saying, WX goes to Z. what is common on the left hand side, that will defintely come on the left side and here on the left side. X goes to Y WY goes to Z. So Means, WX goes to Z Then composition, if X goes to Y. and Z goes to W Then XZ goes to XZ goes to YW means the left hand side Gathered here. And right hand side, gatheredhere. So many times, this properties
will comes in the exam. Like. in 5 marks or 10 marks question. But if out of these properties, you are going to use, the
mostly use properties are Transitive and Reflexive. Remember it. It is very important And also remember in decomposition never break the left hand side. & whenever we will check the validity invalidity. So always check in non trivial functional dependency Because trivial is a kind of reflexive Which is always valid. Fine. So guys, If you liked this video, please like it. And make a comment on that. Because this will give me motivation and definitely I will bring more good videos and please subscribe to my channel. Thank you.