Hello friends, welcome to the Gate Smashers We're going to discuss in this video. What's this primary key? In DBMS, key's concept is most important. Whether you talk about competitive exams. Whether you talk about college or university level exams Or even talk about placements, there also Concept of keys are Certainly asked. And that doesn't means that only one key, like what is primary key? what is candidate key? That's enough, No. If you talk about the normalization. Talk about the sequel, The concept of keys will be used everywhere. So in this video, I'm just focusing On the primary key. So What is the story of primary key? What is it, how do we talk? So I'm starting this story with a simple example Let say, we have 100 students in a class Now I have to store the data of 100 students. Now I will obviously not always call 100 students by face. If I have to take an attendance. 
There is an online system. So what would I do in the online system? I will save the details of all those students I'll make Excel file. In which I have registered the student's registration number, roll number, Father's name, mother's name, student's name, age, gender, marks Adderes, phone number, aadhaar card, make multiple value,  multiple attributes. I'll make a table. Within which multiple attributes Will define. Then we will fill the details of all the students. In a way you can visualise, there is a table in which we have done all the entries. Now here comes the concept of key,  first of all, what is the meaning of key? Like we have key in the lock. What is its property, that every lock has its unique key That key will open only that lock. I'm talking about the best case, I'm not talking about the normal case.  A lot can happen in India. Maybe you can open multiple
locks with the same key, but I'm not talking about that. Not even I am talking about the master key who is roaming around with thieves. What is the normal key's concept that there is only a key for a lock. From that, I can only open that lock, so the same thing we are doing here. Means you are uniquely identifying something. If two things are the same, So identify them that you are different and you are different How will you do? From the key. Now here's talking about the database, then in the database, How we will do? You have attributes in the database. Now If I say name If we take the student's name, then is the student's name guaranteed That will be different? No, you check yourself, you will have a lot of kids in your class, in college, university Whose name, even if you see the first name last name, will be same. You can't take guarantee. Age, date of birth, there are 365 days in 1 year. Or if in leap year 366 days, then obviously somewhere the date of birth will be same. Here if we talk, father's name can also be the same, mother's name can also be same. In case, If two brothers and sisters or two brothers are studying together, obviously their father mother will be same Similarly, the multiple
attributes may have same values, but which are the attributes cannot have same value? That will be Unique key. Which could be? Let say, your phone number, It will comes in your mind that sir, The phone number will be different. Fine. The phone number will be always different. The Aadhaar card number. Yes, you can say that the adhar card we have, Everyone's numbers will be different. Pan card also, although I am talking about the students. So In the case of student, even if you do not take the
PAN card, even if you take it, then also it will be unique In this way, even if you
take the license number, it will be unique Take Registration number, Or roll number Because in many universities, there are registration numbers. In many colleges, Roll numbers are there, then it will also be unique. So in this way, you can count the multiple
attributes somewhere that, sir all these will be unique. There are no duplicacy in it. Now let's talk about, what we all these attributes. We call all these attributes, Candidate key What are all these attributes being made? All of these are candidate keys. So what are the property of the candidate keys? It is unique. So Unique I Achieved But will unique alone work? Can't work, how? Let suppose, the phone number I'm assuming the phone number, If i want to find out a student then I'll fill in the phone number and the details will come. So, is there any guarantee that every student must have
given the correct phone number or even given the phone number? This is also not guaranteed and there is also a possibility that, let suppose if two brothers
and sisters are studying together, then both of them may have given the same number in the database. That's possible, isn't it? This case is possible. You can say that the student does not given the phone number. Or it is also possible that if there are two siblings, then somewhere they mentioned
the same phone number. The two of them does not
have different Phone Numbers. Next say, Aadhaar card. Now you can also say that it is not necessary that every single student has applied. If a student has applied, then obviously their
Aadhaar card will be unique. But what is the guarantee that if we talk about your college or university, let suppose if there are , 10,000-20,000 students or 50,000 students. Can you give the guarantee that all students will have Aadhaar card? All students will have PAN card, license number. That is not a guarantee. And because of this, it can happen that if I am looking for a student, means if i entered his entry online, then there are two or three
entries corresponding to it or no entries corresponding to it. Because you didn't have that in your database, So what is the second
property that you have here? That's Null. It could also be possible that I had not given the phone number. I took admission in the university, in any college, He asked the phone number, I didn't give it there yet or gave a wrong number. So obviously somewhere I put this field, let suppose keep it null, Or with the same sibling case,  if you give same phone number, it will pick the same phone number and what will happen because of it? Tomorrow when you will find the student, then there will not be one
entry corresponding to it, there may be two or three entries. So it is not uniquely identified. So the concept of the database is that I can uniquely identify each one. I can uniquely identify every single tuple , it will not be achieved, then when it will be achieve, that one it should be unique. Second it should not be null, Not null mean that you can't leave this field empty. you can't leave this field empty, You have to fill something in this field, Something has to be filled. Let suppose if I talk about the phone number or the Aadhaar card, the PAN card. So, let suppose, a student came to you get admission in your college. You'll definetly fill that field. Now if you fill that field. If Students say that I don't have an Aadhaar card number yet. So what will you do? Whether you fill any wrong
value in that field? like $, # Just to fill it. Because you can't leave empty, It's a not null field, then what will happen, in that case, you are making the wrong entry in the database. What could be the second case? You will say, want to take admission, give me the aadhaar card number because aadhaar card
number will have to be filled, it's a not null field.  Null means empty, you can't leave null, what will you do then? You will say, you will not get admission now. Bring the Aadhaar card number first. So obviously, this case will not happen, then obviously other competitors college, university will pull that student. Similarly, of we talk about PAN card number, license number. You can't do this case a Mandatory field, To whom would you do the mandatory field in the case of a student? Registration number or roll number. What is the actual concept of primary key? Primary key is also unique Plus it is not null. So I got an advantage from the candidate, Unique. It will always be unique, but out of all candidates key I'm just one, The one who is the most appropriate. Appropriate means like I just told you the case. In the case of student  the most appropriate will be either the registration number or roll number. If it is a small college, then you can also take the roll number. If there are universities,  then what you will take, registration number  or serial number as a primary key, because it is unique, because it is a candidate
key so definitely it is unique Plus this is not null You can't leave it empty. So whenever you talk about this case, you can pick any database. In that database, Your primary key always unique plus not null and second, We never take the value of the primary key from the users. We give the value of primary key to the user. So let suppose if you go to a college or university to take admission So you won't say sir, I want this roll number or I want this registration number. that I want a VIP registration number, there is no such thing. They will give you automatically generated whether this is your registration number or roll number, because this field can't be leave empty. Similarly, Let suppose if
you go to the passport office What will be the passport number at the passport office? It will be primary key because it is also unique, plus not null. Now in the passport office, data of the same student's sorry, same
people's will be there, right? Those who have a passport means those who have
applied for a passport. Now, do you ask for the
passport number by yourself, No. They will give you the passport number, that is the primary key. Similarly in the license office, If you applying for the license, then the license office will have the data of those people whose license has been applied already or they have already have taken the proper or learning license. So the license number will also be provided you by the office. Because this is the very very tough field means it becomes tough somewhere. Because unique and not null both has to be achieved. Data should be unique and also not null means you can't even leave that field empty and even can't fill the duplicate here. So this is the main concept of the primary key. Always remember, the primary key is always unique plus not null. but the candidate key is only unique. You can leave it empty, you can skip it, but If you don't want skip it, then what will you made it, primary key. So the last point here is, in a database more than one means 2, 3, 4 primary key, can be possible? No, there must be only one primary because I told you first, to make a primary key is very hard You can neither leave it empty  nor you can fill the duplicates in it. So if you try to make more than one attribute the primary key, then although at first your
database will not be allowed. Any server, Any software you are using Whether you are using Oracle, Sequel server, IBM anyone will not allow you. Because why would I hire two person my work is getting done by one person? Same thing here also if my work is  getting done by one attribute, then I will not mess with multiple attributes. So that's why your software
doesn't even allow you. to make more than one primary key. But yes, more than one candidate key can be possible, because the unique multiple
attribute can be possible. Alone not null also possible. You can also make more
than one attribute, not null. But if we talk about combinedly, unique and not null, it will be just an attribute and we called it primary key. That will depends on the database that you are creating in which scenario. It will become in the student's case. In the case of Aadhaar card,
Aadhaar card number will be made. In case of PAN, pan number will be made. In case of passport, passport number.  In the case of license, license number. So whatever the
database you will talk about, in that cases you will understand, what is the concept of primary key. Thank you.