Hello Friends Welcome to Gate Smashers The topic is foreign key in database. So, in this video we are going
to discuss about foreign key Where what is the foreign key? And why it is actually used in the database? So before starting this video, I want to request from my viewers, Please subscribe to my channel. And please press the bell button, so that you get the latest notifications. So here actually I have
divided the video in two parts, In part one we are going to discuss What is a foreign key? In Part Two, why it is
actually used in database? So, what is foreign key, It is an attribute of set of attributes that references to Primary key of same table. or another table. Table means the relation. Means first of all, you focus on this point "it's attribute of set of attributes". Means to say. that primary key Can be simple or it can be composite. Means if there is a primary key in a table. So that primary key made
up of the only one attribute. Or a primary key consisting of two or three attributes. So it actually means that primary key is a simple
or whether it is a composite But the Main Point is That the primary key always reference, It take references from the primary key of Same table or another table, means Whenever Foreign key take a reference, whenever takes their data, From where it takes the reference, from the primary key  and in which table the primary will be? Either in the same table. Or it is existing in another table So here the important point is this. Many times in the interviews
also and often comes in the exams. That what is the Referential Integrity and which keys used to
maintain the referential Integrity,  It is foreign key. What is the concept of this referential
integrity? And how Foreign key maintain it? We'll see this in Part Two. Here we are going to see first, what is actually a foreign key? So here i have taken two tables. There's a table here, student. And the second table I took here. course. So in the student table Let's say it is a base table.  It is the base table. Suppose, it is a base table
of any university or college where the Data of all student are present, where student's roll number Student's name Student's address are present. There's a lot of entries and rows. And here I have made roll number as primary key. Why do we make the primary key? It is unique as well as not null, means neither I can leave it empty nor can I repeat any value and it's benefit I have already explained. Ans its benefit is that in any university, if the value of any number of rows same If I have to uniquely identify them. Whose help do we always take? Primary key. Means the value of all the columns can be same But there will be a column in which there is a difference between every two. Why that? Because one is the unique value in it. & empty means you can't even leave it null. I already explain the concept of primary key Here we talk about, the
second table is the course. In the course, we took the course ID, took the course name and took
a attribute here, Roll number. Now here why have I taken
the roll number because The student & course are related to each other Whenever you feel that these two tables are related to each other, how do we denote them? There will be aleast one attribute must be common between them. so that in future, I can join these two tables. what do I have in common in these two tables? Roll number. You can also keep the course ID here, that's not a problem. But I've kept the roll number here. And this roll number working here as a Foreign key. And this foreign key, where it is taking reference from? It's taking a reference from this primary key. What does it mean to take a reference? What is the meaning of the reference that here in this table Like new students are coming New students are taking admission here, and I'm putting their data. New courses are coming. Their course name like course
1, course 2, course 3, course 4. There is a lot of data,
that too, I'm entering it But whenever I have to
put data in this column. I have to put very carefully, because where is the value of
this column being referenced from? From here on, if I ask a simple question, Can I write the Roll number 10? No, Because roll number 10
should be in this table first. If it exist in this table. then obviously roll numbers
10 can be in this table as well. because where are this tables
taking the referencing from? From this table, where are this foreign
table takimg reference from?. From the primary key of this table, so we called this table, Referencing in tables. Referencing. And we called this table Referenced. Referenced Table, means the table in which primary key, We call it the referenced
table or the base table. and in the table, in which foreign key exist, we call ot referencing table, who is taking the reference in the table. And I have denoted here that how we make foreign key in the oracle. If in the oracle or normally in a sequel, if I'm writing a command. And I'm using my platform of oracle. Create Table Course. We are making this tables in which we took the course ID, let say varchar We also took the course name Varchar The main point here is the roll number, I have to make the roll
number as a foreign key So roll number, integer, this data type should be equal to the data type of the primary key, The data type of the primary key is used here, the same data type is to be used here, then write references. After references, table of primary key, that table name where primary key exist. Which table is that, student. And in the bracket put primary key, which primary key is in that table? The roll number. So we used this thing here. I represented it this case, because in case, If there is a coding, let say like if a query is written, then you can also note it down like this. And if already table is made This is when we are making the table, during the creation. How can we apply foreign key? If after the table created means the table has already made & now I have to put the foreign key. So the query for that is Alter Table. Let say, take course Alter, Table, Table Name, Course. Add Constraints Given the Name to Constraint, let's say FK Name anything, Actually foreign key is a constraints. there is a rule. Add, Constraint, foreign key, FK Which constraint is this? Foreign key, Foreign key, And who are you creating the foreign key? Roll number of that table Who are you making of that table? Roll number and where will it take the reference from? It will take the reference. Reference. References. What is the name of the primary table, student. And in that student, which is the primary key? Roll number. So this is how, we write a query. After the table is created. Alter, Table, Table Name, Add, Constraint,
constraint name, foreign key, Which you have to make roll number, references- student, the table of primary key. And what is the primary key in that table. Now let me tell you a small point here, that in both these tables I took
the roll number, roll number. It doesn't mean that their
name should be same. you take some other names here. That is not a problem & the second point is Can a table have more than one foreign key? Yes, a table have more than one foreign key. but primary key is always one in a table. So this is all about the part one, where what is foreign key, we have discussed. In part two, we will talk about the referential integrity, that how foreign key maintain Referential integrity in the referenced table as well as in the referencing table? Thank you.