Hello Friends, Welcome to Gate Smashers In today's video we are going to discuss about types of SQL commands, SQL Is What? Structured query language, so we use structure query language to deal with structure data, structure data meaning structure data means data that we normally store in the form of tables or you can say in the form of relations So when we store the data in the form of table then I need some commands to store and language and if I store the data then to retrieve also I need some commands or language so which are the languages or you can say what are the commands which we use inside SQL inside structure query language to deal with the structure data so first of all we have DDL commands, DDL commands which we have data definition language so which DDL commands  we have create, alter, drop, truncate and rename DDL commands means they deal with schema What do they deal with? with schema what is schema here? Structure Structure means table means  the data we want to store, where are we storing Like I just told structure data we store, in the form of tables so it deals with the creation of that table, means if I for example take a real life example here any data or any items I have I have to courier so the items we have, what is it? data but to courier those items what do we actually need? we want a box in which we can put the goods then this box, what is this box? it is schema, means structure so how to make this box? For that we use here, create table what is the box here with us? tables in structure data always remember that we store data only in the form of tables so whenever anyone ask you about schema or structure, that which structure do we use in sequel? and which data model do we use so what is the model here? table, So same thing I am talking here that the box we have to make in which we can courier, put the goods how to create that box? By create table, means by create commands here if I want to change anything in that box let's say I want to increase the size of this box or increase the width of that box if I want to change anything then alter command like this if we talk about the table here if I want to change anything in the table I have to change the data type of the table add a column inside the table delete a column means whatever has to be changed in structure that we do with alter If we want to remove the structure, then with the drop command to remove data from inside the structure by truncate and to change the name of the structure then we use rename so what is the  structure here? table Whatever these commands are in the table, actually we will see these commands one by one in detail with explanation that how they works? and what is their syntax? But here in this video, I just want to tell you the overview so that you can know in which language which commands come and what is their use in actual, then you have DDL means data definition so the data we have enter data we have to store before storing I need a structure in which I can put that data So who looks after all the work related to structure DDL commands sees that then data manipulation both of these are very important and you cannot do data manipulation unless you do DDL, why? because if I take the same example,  I have to courier, to courier let's say I have a lot of items which I have to courier courier you will do it later what you first need is a box Need a place where you can put that data together so what is the meaning of manipulation here? Data manipulation means we have to insert data if we want to change something in the data then which one do we use? Manipulation if data is to be fetched then select command insert command, update command and if data is to be deleted then delete command If we look at a simple example, let's say I to save the information of student then what do we have with the student's information? Student Name, Student Father Name, Student Mother Name, Student Age, Student Date of Birth, what are all these? Columns means data type about student so where do we create all these values, all these attributes? In DDL? But what are their values, meaning what is the student's name, what is his father's name, mother name, or what is her age? Where do we put all that data? What do we use through data manipulation language, so select insert update delete insert what we use for When we have made box, when we have created the structure and in that structure we have to insert data, delete data, change some value, for this we use dml commands here, Then third comes to us data control, data control means by the name we are getting to know who has control over that data, who is actually authorized on that data, who can delete from that data? Who can get insight into that data and who can get value from that data can select? So in general we have different types of users, if we talk about like company, then what happens inside the company, they keep centralized data and what do different employees do?  If we fetch that data, then it is not that we give all the privileges to every fellow, each person has some pre-defined privileges, so which privileges to be given, we grant that with the grant command and If I think that the guy is leaving the company, then I have all that privilege and have to take the permission back, then we use revoke commands, so what privileges have to be given over the data, that privilege is generally whether that data I can create, insert, delete, update something, it is not, privilege comes about it, so if I want to grant something, I can grant if it helps me. If we want to take back from a user, then we use Revoke command then transaction control language, in transaction control language we use generally inside the transaction As in today's time, what are we doing all the work in general? Trying to do online, means to pay bills online, they are shopping, what are they doing? Online, so all these things we are doing, in which our transactions are used, what do we do in transactions? If I want to credit money, debit money or transfer money, then what word do we use for all these things? Transactions and controlling transactions in DBMS is a very major funda in itself, so if we talk about commands, then it is used for our commit, commit means if the transaction is completed commit then we will put all the values in the database. Have to save, Commit Rollback If the transaction fails then we rollback, in Actual acid property which is acid properties inside the transaction and we have to use them, if in proper way then we will commit, rollback, save point, save point, What does it mean? that if the transaction is going on somewhere in between, then after twenty percent thirty percent we save it. Can Just Like Download Like in downloading or buffering, we have points in between, what happens if our late buffering or our downloading let say fails at 90% If it starts again from zero or from 90% then we use different types of commands for these things and I want to tell you all these commands, this is the point of competitive exams. Why did I bring it and not bring it for the certification exam of Oracle or Microsoft Sequel Server, although all these commands can be used there too but if you are preparing for certification exam someone, then in certification exam May be apart from this we have more commands but if we talk about competitive exam like gate of nta neet, of KVS talking about any competitive exam then these commands which are in it are more than enough and if these commands If you want to execute then you use the software which is from Oracle. Oracle Line I 10 G,  11, 12, 15, 16 we have many different versions or you can use my sequel you can use sequel server, different platforms are available but all these commands which are they are used in general, we get direct name in competitive exams What is the use of these commands? What is Purpose? Next we have Constraints in Constraint section, there is not any type of language, I have written the constraint here because when we create the data, or insert the data, these constraints we normally use here, dd l and dml come to us in the constraint like primary key, foreign key,check, unique, default and not null primary key as we know what primary means if I have any one table in the data I have to create a table of student, but I want that no duplication should come no data should be such that it is duplicate means that the whole row which is there should not be same, so for that we use the functionality of like primary, foreign key we use for reference And if you want to know in detail about the foreign key then I have  already made a video on it what is its purpose? The video is made on the primary key, does it have a purpose? so you can please check that video its link i have already given in description box check is constant, unique constant, default is constraint, not null constraint like not null we use here on mandatory, many times we Web Pages We often feel the web form online, so what happens in it that when we submit it comes some of the options are pending, meaning that star comes written, this is a mandatory field, in which the data there, we can't leave it null, then what is the different type of constraint We have made some rules to enter the data, we call those rules as Constraints we will see all these commands one by one in complete detail but here you can check an overview  which type of commands. Which is what we normally use inside sequels and what is important from a competitive point of view? What can come and what cannot come, so this is more than enough for the competitive point of view,  thank you