Hello friends! Welcome to Gate Smashers So the topic is  Exist and Not Exists In SQL Exist and Not Exist These keywords we use in correlated nested query We correlated nested query In this we use these both keywords Exist and Not Exist  Why do we use? Because,  I have already explained nested queries Over there what did we talk? That what is nested query? There is one outer query And there is one inner query Outer query is there and inner query is there To relate outer and inner query, to join them We need some keywords Either  In, Not In Any, All, different keywords Equal to We can use different operators different keywords To relate outer and inner query But other than that There is one more method Which we call Exist and Not exist And Exist and Not Exist That we generally use In correlated nested query What is correlated nested query It is a special query But it's way is different Other than the nested query In nested query we do it through In and Not In But in correlated nested query we use Exist and Not Exist And it executes in a different way , how it is executed That I will tell you with an example over here First of all you have to learn over here That in correlated nested query Why are we using the words correlated word? Why are we saying correlated word? For that first of all I will take an example On the basis of that example We will write a query Where we will use Exist and Not Exist Then it will be easily clear to you  That why are we saying them as correlated So the query is find the Detail of employee Who is working in atleast On project Means we have to find the detail of that employee Who is working on atleast 1 project Over here I have Emp table Project table And in project table I have kept Eid common I have kept this Eid common over here  Which is acting as a foreign key which is taking reference from primary key And in this table primary key is Pid So this the schema with us 2 tables schema Now, we are writing query by using Exist What we have to do Select * from Emp, because what is the question Find the detail of the employee Who is working on atleast 1 project Who is working on atleast 1 project So select * from Emp, what will this give? It will give detail Of Employee Where Ei, what is common? Eid Where Eid Exists(select Eid from project where Emp.Eid=Project.Eid) This is the important point What have we done over here? We have used Exists first of all And whenever we use exists That we use in correlated nested query Correlated, correlated means In normal nested query Outer query and inner query Work differently Means first inner query is executed As I had told in 'In' and 'Not In' video Check that video once Then you will come to know that How does 'In' and 'Not In' works In 'In' And 'Not In' case Inner query is executed first Whatever output it gives We compare that with outer query But over here How does Exist and Not Exist work? One value from Outer Query We will take 1 row of outer query And we will compare that With second table's row Means we will check That is Emp table one row According to that is there any value existing in project table This is very important point This is top to down approach Top to down means Top one, we will pick 1 row from outer query One by one We have to pick all the rows First we picked  row We will see corresponding to it Is there any value existing? Is there any value according to top existing in inner query Or in inner table Where this condition lies What is the condition? Emp.Eid=Project.Eid So if I execute this Then how will it be done, first of all From the outer table, pick first row, which is the outer table? Emp So from Emp table We picked the first row 1 Ravi Chandigarh So corresponding to 1 Ravi Chandigarh In inner query which table is there? Project And what condition we have to check Eid =Pid Is Eid=Pid? What over here Corresponding to Eid 1 over here is there a 1 over here? Yes So what will this return? True Exist and Not Exist always return True or False From inner table, in the inner query The table is there, the condition is there After checking that condition What will this return? True and False That what according to this row, according to this condition There exist any row? If it is there Then true if it is not there then false So you see it once again Select * from employee Pick the first row And check corresponding to that In second table is any row existing? Where this condition is matching We will check 1 Ravi Chandigarh Does 1 exist over here anywhere? Yes 1 Eid does exist because  Eid=project.Eid So there is 1 in project.Eid And Emp.Eid there is 1? yes So corresponding to outer 1st row In inner table Row does exist So what will this return It will return true As this will return true So select *, the corresponding value to it 1 Ravi Chandigarh This value, as we are using * then 1 Ravi Chandigarh we will print in output But, you have to check for all the rows You have to check for outer table's all the rows So you see second line in outer row 2 Varun Delhi Is corresponding to 2 In inner table Which is the table in inner query? project Is there any row in Project corresponding to 2? It is not there This condition will be false So what is to be returned in this? Just false But in nested query, the normal nested query that we had done Where 'In' and 'Not In' and we had used 'Any' and 'All' Its execution way is different We can do the same question with 'In' and 'Not In' also And I have already done that But it's execution is totally different from this execution How it is different? Over there Inner query will be executed one time One time And then we will compare its output With the outer one But over here Inner query will be executed multiple times According to the outer query, we will check this condition in inner query multiple times If it is true Then we will give output corresponding to it If it is false Then we will not give output As for this For 2 Varun, does 2 exist over here? Exist? No So what will it return? False So there is not execution corresponding to this, no row is found So what will it return? False So when it will return false, in our output it won't print So third 3 Nitin Is any row over here corresponding to 3? corresponding to 3? yes This is found, true As this will return true Then that row The row which is there in outer table 3 Nitin Pune This will be printed in the output Then 4 Robin one by one each row is to be checked 4 Robin Is there any row corresponding to 4 over here? Where this condition is matching Exist Eid from Project where Emp.Eid=Project.Eid Does it exist? Corresponding to 4? Yes, it exists So what will this return True As this will return true We will get the output 4 Robin  Bangalore So this output will be printed Then, 5 Ammey, does 5 exist over here? 5? Yes 5 does exist So as 5 exist What will it return? true So corresponding to that  Amey Chandigarh will be printed in output So 5 name of the employee and location is or address is Chandigarh So in this way my output will come in front But, over here what learning you have to do That Exist and Not Exist how does it actually work Exist and Not Exist how does it work Corresponding to the outer query The table that is in outer query Pick one row from that table And in inner table In inner query, the table that is written Check in that, does it exist or not So in outer table, in employee pick the first row And in inner table Which is the inner table? Project Check in project, it exist or not? If it exist Then it will return true As this will return true This whole This whole will return true As it will return true Then select * Means, we will print its detail in the output If does not exist Like for 2 it did not exist Then 2 Select * from employee Where Eid what is the Eid?2 2 Exists in inner table, in project table Does 2 exist anywhere? no So what will this complete return? false So as this will return false We will not print in the output So this  is how We have to learn that Exist and Not Exist  How does it work So we have seen Exist case What we will do Not Exist case? We use Not Exist over here Select * from Emp and let's say Not Exist Select * from employee Where Eid  Where Eid Not Exist Not Exist Select Eid from Project where Emp.Eid=Project.Eid So the way to write correlated is also very different We are using the inner table inside Which is the outer table Emp We are using its value inside also But in nested query, where we had use 'In' and 'All' Over there inner query works differently And we used to compare the outer query But over here The outer query table is there, that we are using over here also So again in Not Exist case It is going to return true and false only Select * from Emp where Eid Not Exist So see 1 1 Not Exist Not Exist Eid=Eid It 1 matching over here with any row Is there any row corresponding to 1 We have got row corresponding to 1 So Not Exist, is false It does Exist So as Not Exist is false In output 1 will not come Then  after that 2 2 Not Exist 2 Not Exist true True , as over here 2 Not Exist became true Then the value with 2  2 Varun Delhi This  will be printed in output Because we have to print output from this from Emp 3, 3 Not Exist No 3 Exist, it is false 4 Not Exist No 4 is also existing 5 Not Exist No 5 also Exist Then only corresponding to 2 what is Not Exist True So as this will return True Then corresponding to that From outer table We will print the output So Not Exist and Exist always work corresponding to true and false But corresponding to outer row Does any row exist in inner table or it does not If it exist then true will be returned We will give the output If it does not exist then false will be returned We will not print anything in output Thank you