Hello Friends, Welcome to Gate Smashers.
The Topics is types of attributes. in relational databases. or we can say type of attributes in Entity relationship models mean basically this part, this topic, comes more in entity relationship as compare to the relational model. But yes you can compare for both also. So in the type of attributes, first attribute I have Single Vs multi valued attribute means what is attribute, actually? Attribute is any entity, we had discused, let's say student is an entity, About the student entity, Those who are explaining the student's characteristics or properties. What are they? Attributes Which shows that yes It belongs to a student entity What can be the attributes
of the student entity? Like student's name, student's roll number, registration number, father name, address, mobile number. There can be a lot of tribute. Now we're kind of them. I mean, they are We are checking if it's a single attribute Or multi valued attribute. So if we talk about single attribute, then it is known by name. Attribute whose value will be one mean there will be only
one value for a attribute, you can not have more than  two value for a attribute. What kind of attribute for a student? Its a simple attribute, let's say Registration number If you talk about the registration number in a university. There will always be a registration number of a student. This means a student cannot have two registrations number Because Registration Number Itself. Identifies. Who is this student? Means in a university, it can be possible that the
Student's name is same, the father's name is also same, the address can also be same. But what things will be different? Registration number. So the registration number is only single attribute, single valued attribute It doesn't mean only registration number. Age can also be possible, there are a lot of attributes. But we just have to disscus an example, so that you have although
this topic is very Simple. But you'll find out once. So you can use it easily. If it is being asked in the exam. So you can easily explain about it. so multi-valued attribute means Where not only a value, you have more than two values so how can we give its example. Let's say mobile number. Student can have more than One mobile number or address also. Student can have more than one address One is permanent address and other is  correspondence address. So this what, a multi-valued attribute but how we represent multi-valued attribute in the ER model? With double eclipse. For Normal or single attribute
represent in single eclipse and this one in double eclipse, so this is multi valued attribute which also has more than one value in the table  or whose more than one value can exist. Then, Simple Vs. Composite. Simple means Which cannot be broken further means that is itself simple we can't further divide it. Like if we talk about Age of the student If we talk about age or student. Why is it simple in the age? Because If I said, the age of a student is 20 So you can't divide it further. That one value  is fixed. That is what 20. It Cannot be further Divided. But what is Composite Attribute? Composite attribute is actually which is Composed of More than one value means if student's name Let's say, student's name So the student's name is actually composed the first name, middle name, last name of the student, means Actually, There is a student name, but the student name is what, actually it is a, You can also say, composite attribute or the compound attribute. So the student name is further, It can be further divided. First name Middle name Last name. This is the Simple process. Then Stored Vs derived attribute. Stores attributes means Such attribute witch cannot be Derived means Whose value are fixed,  stored in them, such as the date of birth. Date of Birth,  Student's Date of Birth. Student's date of birth, If I wrote down a value, I wrote, You can't derive it from anywhere. Whatever the student said that my date of birth is this. So that date of birth I'll mention here. But The name derived is known by the name of it, the means whose value is not known. We're actually deriving it, means we know the
value of any other attribute From that attribute we are deriving That's called the derived attribute. In the case of the student, Derived attribute can be age. Age can be the Derived attribute also.  So how can we derive the age? Age if I know that the student's date of birth is this And today's date is this. So by minus it from the date of birth, we can find out what it is the actual age. Now a days, on the lot of web pages If you check the web page, it's written like this. Enter your Date of Birth, when you enter the Date of Birth. Click the Tab At the bottom, automatically
comes in the age option, year or month means that column fill itself that means the system calculates automatically by minus from the date that What is the age. And the important part is. So, How do we Represent
the stored attribute? Like Normal There is not any Specific Representation for This. but there is a representation for derived. Derived actually represented with Dotted eclipse We represented it with dotted eclipse. means whatever attribute you feel. We can derive it. Like if I talk about the course. An entity is course. Course ID, Course Name, Course start date, Course Duration. So I can find the end date of the course, how? If I have the start date of the course, let's say Course will be Starting from 2018 and the duration of the course is 4 years So I will know that course will end in 2022. means 4 years you add to it. You need to. you don't need to specify that you can find easily From already existing attributes. So this is the simple concept of Derived attribute but important point here to remember that how we represent, that is Dotted Eclipse. Then key and non key attribute. what is key attribute Here I want to put the star mark  because key  attribute is very important. These three above, if you know once, you will not forget it. It's easy. You can easily find it. But you won't get any such question. Tell me if this attribute is simple or a composite, your brain IQ will work. You can easily find it, but what's actually the key attribute? By the name, its known. What is a key, Key attribute is a attribute which is used to uniquely identity each and every row. Means may be in a college or in a university, there is a Student's data. In the student's data, Student's Name, Student's Father Name, Address of the Student. There can be all those columns in which the value is same. Maybe there can be a lot of
student same in the university. Father name can also be same, address can also be same. But An attribute that will always have a unique value. Within which there will
always be unique value. We called it key attribute means there is no repetition in it. Like if you talk about the student's table. So in the student table, the mobile number Can be repeated, There are two brothers, one has given his mobile number, the younger brother has also
given the same mobile number, So repetition happened. Or It could be that Two siblings are studying, one gave the mobile number of their parents the other also gave the same mobile number. It can be possible. Date of Birth, Date of birth, obviously a lot of studentsmay
have same date of birth. Student's name? The name of the student, definitely. Even if we see in a small class. Then Even in the class, the names of many students can be same. If we talk about the university or the big database, there will be a lot of it. Age definitely, many students in a class room can have the same age but what won't be same? Registration number. Now I am taking the registration number of a particular university, maybe in some university or college the roll number are there. So you can considered the roll number. Different universities and
colleges have their own rules. Somewhere IDs are there. somewhere SSN number works,  so here you can Easily understand,  what I mean to say, that the registration number is actually the number which always Unique. So we call the key attribute as unique attribute. and we represent it with underline. Underline. So key attribute is always
represent with the Underline. in ER model. Non-key, Non key means , such attribute in which there is no unique value. It's not always necessary to be unique. Non-unique is also posible. Like, what's all the rest, it's non-unique. Means it can be a unique or it cannot be a unique but If an attribute is the key attribute. Then that's the guarantee that attribute will always be a unique attribute. But in the case of non-key, May be some value may be same, some value may not be same. There is no guarantee, but you will find only the guarantee here. So reat of all, which attributes they are? Non-key. And We also represent non key attributes as normal like with Normal eclipse. Then required Vs Optional Attribute. Actually it's not the part of ER model. It does not comes in the ER model. Yes, we use required attribute in the Normal sequel. The requirment means Actually what is the meaning of REQUIRED? Whose value is mandatory. It comes many times, In web pages we put the value many times. It was written in it that the
mobile number os requiered. means if you skip it and. Save the page. then there a star mark is made in red because that is mandatory field. So this is what the Meaning of required attribute and optional means Which you can even leave. Means what's in the request, like if I say. what will be required in the case of a student. Student name, The child who is coming to take admission will not tell the name then, No, So the name should be there. Mobile number can also be a mandatory. Even if it is not there but, we took some other mobile number or may be we put null value there but in require like name of the student that is always required In Optional Means we can leave it for once, for the time being. You can leave it, futher sometime later if i have time then  i can fill that database like an address. Or date of birth. if he didn't tell is, then it doesn't matter. It depends on different databases. Maybe if you're applying for a passport. There you will have to give the date of birth. if you applying for another database. means it depends, this is not a fix. Depends on different case & who actually decides. Database Admin means Actually, when we create a structure. If we make a table, then in the structure we mention the constraints. I put this constraints, not null. that no one can leave this value blank. We will discuss this constraint further. Here's just see the basics overview that, required attribute means whose value is Required and Representation. Actually, this is not in ER model, even if it is asked So it has normal representation There is no Specific Representation of it. So this is all about basically, what are the various types of Attributes. One, one more is here Composite. Sorry complex, composite is already done. Complex attributes. It is also several times written complex attribute. what is complex attribute basically,  which is composite Plus multi valued. Multi-valued. Complex attribute  which is Composite Plus Multi valued. Like if a student have two residential addresses. And two phone numbers of each residential address. So what happened at first? I have the address here. Address can be Composites. How did the address composed? Like, Street number. In the address. you can also call the address as composite like we said student's name is composite. In the same way, address is also composite. Street number. State. City. Anything. Mean you can further bifurcate it. So means An attribute that is composite & also multi-valued. Mixture of both. That we called complex attributes. So these are the Basic Attributes. Many times, These can also be given directly given to you in the exam. If it has come. Then this is your luck, because there is not much complexity in it. This is very Simple topic. Thank you.