Hello guys!
Welcome to Gate Smashers. In this video, we will discuss what data structure is, its use, and where do we see or use it in the real life. So quickly like this video and subscribe to the channel, if you have not done yet, and press the bell button to get all the latest updates. Let's start with the definition of Data Structure. Data structure. What's data? Anything stored in the computer in digital form, be it a song, excel file, word file, image, pdf file, or anything. Anything stored in digital form is data. We have to provide a structure to this data, which means that we have to provide a storage format to be able to access that data in the future in a minimum time and to be able to modify and update it. Let's see its standard definition. "In computer science, a data structure is a data organization, management and storage format that enables efficient access and modification." See why we used the word 'organization' and 'management' here. Big companies like Google, Amazon, Facebook are collecting data in a large amount on a daily basis. Since the data is being collected, obviously, there will be some organization and management for it and we will also have to give a storage format to it to s access it in the future. What you do on Facebook is that you upload your photos on it on a daily basis. What Facebook has done is that it has provided a structure to it. We access it according to that structure only. Since they have provided a structure to the data, we can access, insert, and delete it. Right? This is known as Data Structure. Data Structure is neither a software nor a data type like integer, float, etc. Data structure is not this. Data structure is simply a way to store the data. Alright? Let's understand this with an example. Suppose that you have a library and when you go to your library and you see a pile of books. Suppose you want the Data structure book.
Will you be able to get it? How many days you will require to search for the Data structure book? That is why the librarian divides all the subjects into different sections so that you can easily access the book. What are the books here?
They are the data. What did we do with the books?
We provided a structure and storage to them. Now its organization and management will also take place so that we can read those books in the future. Okay? Now the thing is, where is it used? You will be shocked to know that the data structure is the base for everything including your application, software, and 
 website. If they are working well, It means that there is a data structure behind it which is its base. Right? For instance, when you search for something on Google, thousands of users are searching simultaneously, and you still get the results with the same speed. The data structure is the base behind it. When you buy any product on amazon. When you enter anything. You entered a book Data structure you immediately get the results with reviews. What's behind it?
There's a data structure. You can see on Facebook, that everything works upon the data structure. I admit that AI and machine learning also work simultaneously, but data structure is the base. There is a very good data structure. That is why, before teaching us any programming language at the beginning of the semester at the university, they teach the data structure first. Since we study all these structures beforehand, read their logic and how we can do insertion and deletion. There is stack, queue, and array. If we already have the knowledge of these structures, we will be able to understand those programming languages easily because we are going to use the same structures in those languages. In the further videos, we will study data structures one by one. That's all for today. What are data structures and what is its importance? Thank you!