 Music  Dear students, welcome to Gate Smashers  In this video I am going to explain Prim's algorithm  And in this video we will explain how to work on all the important points related to Prim's algorithm  Pseudo code, time complexity, each and 
everything I will explain to you  Which will help you a lot in your competitive exams,
 college university exams, even in interviews  So guys, like this video and subscribe to 
the channel if you haven't done it yet  And if you have done it, then you can 
get more subscribers from other devices  So let's start Prim's algorithm  The first important point guys  All the points I am telling you, 
keep writing them and note them  So that in case you have to read them again in the future  You can easily map it by checking the video
 from those notes or from the video again  So see, the first important line of 
Primm's algorithm is what is the output  Or you can say why we use this algorithm
 to find minimum cost spanning tree  What it is? Minimum cost spanning tree  Now in this minimum cost spanning tree, I have already told you what is the funda of this spanning tree  Even we have already done one more
 algorithm of this, that is Kruskal  Now we have to find out minimum cost, 
minimization problem, greedy approach  Now what is the funda of spanning tree?  Spanning tree must have already come 
to your mind that what is spanning tree?  If number of vertex is V, then number of edges must be V-1  So the output of spanning tree, in that number of vertex is V  So how many number of edges should be less than 1 from vertex  And this should be connected graph  Now we have to make this type of spanning tree  But the cost should be minimum  So keep this point in mind because when
 we analyze its time complexity, it will come there  First of all we talk about working  And how does it work? Because your main question comes on this  So you have given weighted graph here  Not directed graph, I have taken undirected graph here  So what you have to do in weighted graph first  In Kruskal, we used to write all the edges in the asending order  We used to put minimum edges one by one  Just had to check that no loop should be formed  Or you can say that in case if loop is formed or in case if in between  Means your tree, what always happens in 
spanning tree is that loop should not be formed  That's the same thing we will do here  But here your approach is a little different  What is the approach? First step is you can start from any vertex  What is the first step? You can start from any vertex  In case you are given in the exam that starting vertex is this  Then you start from that, otherwise you can 
start from anyone and randomly choose any  So let's say I start from B, here I start from B  So see, first of all I wrote B vertex here  What is the second step? When you have chosen  All the vertex connected from B, so see A is connected from B  And from B, and apart from this, 
which one is there? C is connected  So two are connected, one is connected and one is C connected  So there is only one cost, one, C cost is 6  So check the cost of those connected  Pick the minimum one from that  So see this is 1, this is 6, whom I will pick?  1, you just have to use this approach again and again  So see here we have chosen which was 1, 
means I have chosen the one from B to A  So this C one, 6 is already there, you already have it  But you have to choose the minimum one,
 so we have done the minimum one  Now we have reached A too, now check the same from A  What? From whom is it connected? From D  And from whom is it connected? From C  With the cost of 6, 5  And keep in mind the previous one too, 
that from B, there is another edge B  Keep that in mind too, and the new one should also be in your mind  Now you have to choose the minimum from these three  Means this point, the crux of this main algorithm, the heart is  That you have reached A, you have seen 5 and 6  But the previous one should also be in your mind  Let's say that if the previous one was 2 instead of 6  Then I would have chosen this one  But for example here according to the question it is 6  So we will not take this one, this is also 6, we will not take  Which is the minimum one? 5  So we will take the 5 one, so I will make the 5 one well  Here, where is the 5 one going? It is going to D  So I made the D one, this will be your cost 5  Now see here if you want to make it, make it  Otherwise you can keep it in your mind too, it should be in your mind  We will start it like this  Now we reached D, see from D a 10 is going, one here is going to 2  One 10 and one 2  And in previous you should have in your
 mind that this is 6 and this is also 6  So which is the minimum of all these? 2  So I will make the 2 first, 
so here we have chosen minimum  We reached F, okay  What will be my cost here? The cost will be 2  Now see we reached F, see from F a 3 is going  8 is going, before that the 10 going from D  This is 6 and 6 is also going  Among all these, the first option was  This is 6, this is 6, this is 10  And from here this is 3 and this is 8  Of all these 4-5 options, which is the minimum?  This is 3, so connect that one  So from F to C  So we will connect this from C with the cost of 3  Now you must be thinking that what is the difference?  Whenever you check in between,
 what is the major difference in Prims?  Whenever you are making this in between,
 it will always be made in a connected way  See all these are connected  But what do we do in the crucible?  First we chose this, then we chose this, then we chose this  So it goes in a disconnected way  It becomes connected in the last  But when you check in between, 
it always goes in a disconnected way  But Prims always goes in a connected way  Whenever you are checking all the graphs  Now the intermediate result  Now the result in between  What is giving you?  It is going in a connected way  This is the major difference  Now we have reached 3  Now see from 3 we have one going, this 7  This 6 was already there, this 6 was 
already there, this 10 was already there  Apart from this, from F this was also 8  So this is my next option  Now I have reached C  From C to 7  But now you must be thinking that
 sir we have already got it in the back  This 8 is already more than 7, so forget this  10 is also more, forget this  6 and 6, yes I can choose this because it is less than 7  But keep in mind that if I connect this 6  If I choose this 6 from this select  If I connect this, then what will be the problem?  The problem is visible in front of you, if you connect  Here, the loop is made inside this  The cycle is made  The cycle is made, so where is the tree?  Spanning tree should not be a cycle  A should be cyclic, neither should it be loop  So this will become a cycle  No, we can not select this  Already this was minimum  Of all these options, it was minimum  But we can not select  Then we go to this 6  There is one more 6  We have connected this 6  Then the same problem  What is made in this whole?  The cycle is made  Means we can not connect this 6 here  Keep this point in mind  It is not like anything  6 is picked up and connected  No, if the cycle is made  Then the property of the spanning tree is not there  So forget this  Then we have the option of 7  So we have connected E with the option of 7  Then we have come  Now after this we have the option of 12  This option of 6 is needed  You can forget now  Because you know what this 6 will make  This 6 will make a cycle  Then we have this 8 option  Because this is the 10th option  It is more  If you forget these two  Means I have this 8th option  So I went from this 8 to H  This was 12  So forget this  This is the most weight  So I chose 8th option  It reached H  Now from H to 1 is going to 7  1 is going to 8  And apart from this  The previous one was 12  Above was 10  So forget this 6th option  Then obviously  What is the minimum?  It is 7  So I connected 7  And I reached G  I connected 7  I reached G  You cut the rest once  So that you don't mix it by mistake  When you do it in the exam  You will have an idea  How to perform one by one  Now on G  You can see  What is the minimum from G  The cost of 3 is the minimum  So we have connected from G  The cost of 3 came  Now see this  So you have the final result  In front of you  This is a spanning tree  How did you know the minimum cost?  From how many vertex?  1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9  So how many edges should be there?  8  So 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8  So you have to check it like this  To find out the total cost of the spanning tree  So you add all these  And find out the total cost  Whether you do it with Kruskal or Prims  The answer will be same  The main thing is  How Prims works  So all the functions of Prims in front of you  Works like this Thank You.