 Hello friends, welcome to Gate Smashers  In this video we are going to discuss about spanning trees  And in this we are going to discuss important
 points related to spanning trees  Which will be very beneficial for your competitive
 exams, even college or university level exams  So guys, like the video quickly, subscribe the
 channel if you haven't done it yet  And please press the bell button so 
that you get all the latest notifications  So let's start with the spanning tree  What is a spanning tree?  It is a connected sub graph, let's say S of a graph G  Which is containing vertices and edges  It's said to be a spanning tree if and 
only if it is following these properties  What is the property?  S should contain all vertices of G  Means, let's say I take an example of a graph here  Let's say this is our graph G  What is the property of a graph?  Graph contains vertices, this is a 
vertex 1, vertex 2, vertex 3, vertex 4  And it contains edges like E1, E2, you can name any of them  Plus the graph can have cycle  Cycles can be there in the graph  But if we talk about the spanning tree  The first important point in the spanning tree is it is connected  Means it should be connected plus obviously it is a tree  So cycle is not possible in this  Because cycle is not there in the tree  So here the first property is  S should contain all vertices of G  Means if you want to make a spanning tree of this  So in this way, all the vertices in the graph 
should have the same vertex in the spanning tree  Second, S should contain V-1 edges  Means, no matter how many vertices are there, make it minus 1  There should be so many edges in it  So see, what is the number of vertices I have? 4  If you do minus 1, then the number of edges will be 3  So how do I draw it?  Let's say this is one edge, second edge, third edge  So see the first property  Graph is connected, this is a sub graph  Sub graph means in which obviously we talk about the subset  Like if we talk about A, B  Let's say A is a subset of B  So what does it mean? A can be equal to B or less than A, B  So here I have a subset  But it is connected  What does connected mean?  Every vertex should be reachable  So see all the vertices  1, 2, 3, 4  All the vertices are reachable  Whether it is connected or not is not important  See 2 and 4 is not directly connected  It does not mean that it is not connected  What does connected mean?  Can I go from 2 to 1? Yes  Can I go from 2 to 4? Yes  Can I go from 2 to 3?  All the vertices are reachable  That is called connected  And S should contain all vertices  Yes  S should contain V-1 edge  So what can we call this?  We can call it spanning tree  Now let's say  Many times students get confused  That let's say if I draw like this  4 is my vertex  As it is, I have drawn 4 here  What should be the number of edges? 3  So let's say 1, 2, 3  Number of edges is still 3  But if we see the property of spanning tree  Is it connected first?  No  Here vertex 4 is an isolated vertex  See there is no way to reach vertex 4  Vertex 1, 2, 3 is not connected with 4  Second cycle  Because tree is here  So tree must contain A-cyclic  What should be tree?  A-cyclic should be there  But here I have a cycle  So it is not a spanning tree  So what other spanning tree can you make?  You can make this one also  That is also a spanning tree  If you make this graph  1, 2, 3, 4  This is made  And what else is possible?  This is also possible  We have one more possible  Of this graph  That is what?  This is made  And above this one  And we have made one more  On the bottom side  Let's say 1, 2, 3, 4  So see how many spanning trees are there here  4 spanning trees are possible  On this particular graph  Now what type of questions come?  This is a basic introduction  What type of questions come?  First question comes  If you have given complete graph  Then how many number of spanning trees are possible?  Let's say if we talk here  K4  K4 complete graph  So what is K4?  This is complete graph with 4 vertices  Now if I want to make a spanning tree of this  Then obviously to make it  I will have to do some hard work here  Because all diagrams will have to be made here  Like this is one possibility  This is one possibility  Then what you do with this?  Turn it all around  Means if you move it clockwise or anti-clockwise  Then how many possibilities will be there in total?  4  Like I have drawn here  So this is 4  What can be the second type?  Like this is made  This is one possibility  Number of vertex is 4  How many number of edges?  4-1 is 3  And see it is acyclic  It is connected  So if you turn it all around  Means how many spanning trees will be made in total?  4  Which one of you can be made?  This one  Obviously if you turn it all around  Then 1,2,3,4  If you turn it all around  Then what will be made of this?  How many 4's are there in total?  Means this is made  One is made  Turn it up  One on the left side  One on the bottom  If you see one more like this  Then this one  How many will be made of this?  4 is possible  Means how many spanning trees are there in total?  16 in case of K4  Now if you get K5, K6 or K10  Now it is not possible to draw this  It is feasible till 4  Means we can draw it till 16  But after that it is difficult to draw  So remember this formula  N power N minus 2  Where N is the number of vertex  If you have given  Complete graph with N vertices  So you have to find out spanning tree  So you put value in it  Let's say if 5 is there  Then what will 5 do?  Power of 5 is 5 minus 2  So what is the power of 5?  3  Which is 125  Obviously 125 is difficult to draw  But it will come from the formula  But when to apply this formula?  When you have given complete graph  But you have not given complete graph  Then we use Kirchhoff's theorem  And second important point is  Related to minimum cost spanning tree  This is very very important point  Because in all the greedy techniques  In the greedy technique  The minimum cost spanning tree  In which we talk about  Kruskal algorithm and Prim's algorithm  Both these algorithms are very important  Questions are very easy level  But the most questions  In Greedy  You will get minimum cost on spanning tree  So what is minimum cost spanning tree?  We will see that in the next video  But you at least know  What is spanning tree?  So this is all about the basic introduction  Of the spanning tree Thank you.