Hi everyone. I am Fraz and I am a software engineer at Google. In today's video we are going to talk about 5 simple projects. Which we can make just using data structures and algorithms. Many times placements just arrive at the door and we don't have development skills to create projects. You can always go for data structures and algorithm related projects. There are two benefits in this, 1. You will get to know the real world use for data structure and algorithm. How to use it in problem solving. 2. When discussing about projects in interviews, questions will be around that data structure or that algorithm which you have used in the project. Now there's another benefit from this, whenever you create projects using data structure and algorithm, make sure that you fully know that data structure or algorithm. It's space complexity analysis, time complexity analysis, in best, average and worst case should be known. So with that, let's start with our list. It's a very good list, as we move forward projects will become more interesting. Before moving forward, like this video I don't usually ask for it, but for this video definitely give it a like. So if you remember, there were games SanAndreas and vice city, that we used to compress and write them into CDs and DVDs. There was no pendrive at my time, maybe I am a little too old. You can also make this type of softwares as a project. It's very simple. There's no complexity in this. There's an algorithm called Huffman Coding. Which sounds sophisticated because it is someone's name. But this is a simple algorithm. If you read it once, from some YouTube channel or from a blog, you will totally understand it. It's very simple. And using this algorithm you can create your own file zipper software. There is a link in description for the projects we are talking about. Do add your own modifications. There's step by step process on how to do it. But definitely do add your own modifications. Don't copy and paste it. Now secondly we have sudoku solver. There's a game called sudoku, or whatever you call it. So there's a board where you have to fill integral values you have to fill interger values. It's an interesting game, sort of like a puzzle. If you don't know then read about it and to solve it, the algorithm is backtracking. With the help of backtracking you can solve sudoku. It's very simple, I have already taught recursion and backtracking. Those who learnt from me will definitely get to know how this algorithm works. Those who haven't learnt, there's another channel of mine, Lead Coding by Fraz, you can go see it. See the whole playlist for recursion. Not just this but you will understand other recursion algorithms too. Subscribe it, check it out, soon there will be a new playlist whose prerequisite is recursion. If you haven't done recursion, definitely go do it. So you can make sudoku solver, Again all the steps will be available in the description. You can refer from it but do add your own innovation in it. Now, the next project is sorting visualizer. Now this project is a little over used because many people are using it. Because everyone learns sorting. So sorting visualizer is a very good project but because it is used a lot, there's a little bit less value. You can see other projects, even if you want to create sorting visualizer then you can go for it. This particular project has placed a lot of people. So yes definitely check it out, you will find the link in the description. If you really want to learn development from scratch, from zero to advanced then you can check out Crio.Do Crio.Do is an experience based learning platform where you will learn development by working on projects. So there are live webinars here, and you are also allocated a mentor. And you learn skills while working on projects. When this program ends, you have lot of good projects for your resume. And skills also get developed. Now you can book a free class, a free trial, link is in the description below. And if you like it you can explore the programs here. There are mainly two programs here full stack development, back end development and a fellowship development program. So fellowship program is a little longer because it is a placement guarantee program. It is of 9 months. You will learn coding fundamentals, data structures algorithms, projects then resume building, and are scheduled interviews. There's a lot, they take a placement guarantee. So by the end of this program you will be placed. Tiny url, now tiny url again is a frequently used project, even I made it and mentioned it on my resume when I was going for internship. I made tiny url using Django Framework. There was a little bit of development involved, but you can tiny url without using much development you just have to use Maps here and a certain collision logic. It is again a very interesting project and you can definitely also make this one. You get to know the actually implementation of map how to handle collisions, it's an interesting one link is in the description you can make it. Now the 5th project and one of the most interesting project that I recently thought out while walking in metro. So there are metro apps, if you've seen it, while you are traveling in metros you have apps where you input source and destination you get to know, let's say you started from Dilshad garden then want to stop at Kashmiri gate and go to yellow line You get to know all this where you need to drop and change and then which metro to take. Similarly Google Maps, in it you see the whole road how you have to reach your place, how much time it will take where is traffic. I am not asking you to create Google Maps because it is very complex. There's a lot going on in it. But the metro application is not a lot difficult its easy,  all the stations will be considered as graph 'nodes'. The distance between them will be considered 'edge' or the fare between them will be considered edge. They'll be considered edge, whole graph has been made apply Dijkstra's algorithm in it. After applying Dijkstra's algorithm, you will find shortest time path, and shortest cost path. You will find both of them for source to destination. It's a very interesting project . I thought about it but I found the Github repo for this because people have obviously already created it. So again the link is available in the description. Do your own changes in it. So these were the 5 interesting projects that you can do using just data structure and algorithm. All the codes are available in the description. And tell me in the comment section which project you liked the most. We'll meet in the next video, till then bye, Bye!