You don't know where you should do DSA from. Now you are seeing everyone, they are giving contests, solving questions, but you don't even
know whether to do Java or C++. Which language should I start from? I do know Java but I can't solve questions. So we are here with the solution to all your questions. Along that, there is a roadmap, which if you follow for 3 months, if you do questions for 3 months so you'll be at a very good level. And along that there are many free resources added here. Through which you can learn things. So welcome back to the channel. In today's video we are going to talk about DSA in 3 months. You'll be solving DSA in 3 months. Solving questions. The prerequisite is that you should know a language. If you don't know a language, don't worry. I've also added the videos from where
you can learn the basic language. The link to both the playlists have been added. That will be level 0. Which you have to do. After that you can do things ahead. Before jumping on the roadmap. There are a few things that you have to
take care of in your preparation journey. If you are sitting, recession is going on. So getting opportunities is a little difficult. So you have to make a really good profile. So in this video I've discussed everything apart from DSA. Which things you have to pay
attention to, to have a very good profile. Either its your LinkedIn profile, or your resume, or your projects. Which things to take care of, I'll tell that in this video. So listen carefully. Don't skip the video. Link will be in the description. So don't just click on the link first,
see for myself, what will he tell. Listen first, then go see it. You'll understand things better, if you don't
see then you won't understand properly. And then you'll miss out. Generally that's what people do. We launched a course on Algoprep. So we separately stated, must watch before starting the course. People are just not seeing it and then
asking the same thing in the community. So it become a problem with everyone. They don't listen first, and repeat the
same mistakes that were told not to do. But they don't see it so how will they know. In this video, the like target is 5000 likes. You are not doing it with many videos. If you want good resources for free and anything else, then tell in the comments section, I'll try to get you that. Just work hard. Complete yours, your parents dream. And yeah, just give your 100%. Now let's start the video. So hi guys I'm Nishant Chahar, welcome back to the channel. In today's video, we are going to talk about about these things. First of all, what you have to do. Stop comparing yourself to others. When you are starting this journey, you
have to give the next 6 months to yourself. So either its DSA or development or anything, don't compare yours to others, compare it to yourself. What I was 10 days ago. Have I improved from the things I used to do. If you've improved, then well and good. You are going at the right path. But if you are in the same state. You haven't improved. Then it's time to rethink, what we can do better. Because often our friends or people
around us grasp things quickly. Do it quickly, so we get demotivated. They are able to do this, we are
not able to do this, are we stupid? Its not like that, everyone can learn things. Its just, definitely some people swiftly learn things, some take time. And its fine. And coding is something that anyone can learn. People at the age of 60 can do it. So you are very smart. People are very smart at the age of 20. They have a lot of grasping power. You'll be able to do it easily. Its just, learning some things can take more time. But don't say that recession is going
on, I won't be able to get employed. So I have a lot of friends who
recently applied in a lot of companies. Even cracked a lot of companies. So I'm going to tell you, things are getting better. Right now, placements started at IIT. So companies have started coming back there. Earlier, companies were not coming in any college. So companies have started coming
again, recession is slowly decreasing. And this was predicted. That things stay bad for a year and a half. And then things start improving. Job openings are opening, Microsoft recently started hiring. Google has started hiring. Amazon also started hiring. Along that, Salesforce, Atlassian are hiring. And many companies are hiring. So along all the things. I'll be posting on LinkedIn, if any company is hiring,
if anyone knows, they can start commenting on it. And I'll post the link for the post in the description. So you guys can also check it out. And apply to these companies which are currently hiring. Now for all this time, hiring was paused, that means many people started applying in a lot of places. So competitions starts increasing. So you'll have to be the best version
of yourself to get that opportunity. Opportunity will come but grasping it is a little difficult. Because many people are waiting in the line. If companies are not hiring for 1.5 years then there are many 
people which are from the previous batch, this year's batch, both must be competing. Many people are there who graduated
in 2023 and they still didn't get a job. They must be applying right now. So competition can get a little high. But you have to work on your skills. If you do that, then there's no competition. You will do it. Third is, peer group is very important. If you have friends with you, if you have a batchmate, or even one friend with whom you can discuss questions. Discuss problems, solutions. Discuss after giving contest. Then its pretty good. Generally, getting that is difficult
if you are from a Tier-2, 3 college. Everyone is not that self motivated. Everyone doesn't want to do apply. Not everyone wants to participate in the contests. So if you join Algoprep, or if you download the app Algoprep, then you'll get a community there. Where you can connect with people,
make whatsapp group with them. You can discuss contest with them after connecting. And you'll get a lot of things. The community is totally free. You won't pay anything for that, just download the app. And register, you'll be a part of that community. We have a three months roadmap there. We keep taking updates there. Those who participate in this, they will post their updates there. So you can make friends with new people. And make them your accountability partner. So coding becomes easy. And you will get someone. If you have a doubt or any problem, then you can ask them. Or if you join the live course, cohort 3.0. Then you also get the Whatsapp group community. And along that, also gets doubt support. You can see that in the launch video. The benefits you get if you enrol in cohort 3.0. We won't talk much about that. So now we'll talk about resources. The resources we can follow in the coming three months. So that we are placement ready. So that we are internship ready. If any company's opportunity comes then we won't miss it. So let's quickly start. So as you can see, I'll add both Java and C++'s resources. I've taught C++ at Curious Chahar. We've taught Java at Algoprep channel. So you can learn from them. You'll understand the basic, how to code, what's
print, if-else, everything will be taught from basics. When you've learnt that, you can start your day 1, day 2. If you already know a language, then there's no problem. You can quickly start there. So first you have to study about space and time complexity first. Because its the most important, asked in every interview. If you've coded anything, then you should
know that code's space and time complexity. So here I've given the video's link. You go there, you can find the video. You can check this video out. You will get to know how to find time complexity and all. This is the whole foundation's course. Its free on the Algoprep's YouTube channel. I've divided it in the playlist. So its easier for you. You can easily see the playlists topic wise. I've added more videos, and free resources, you can see them. So it'll be helpful. And you won't have to go 25 different places,
you will find everything structured in one place. So you can learn time and space complexity from here. After that, it will be in a day or two, not more than that. You can learn this in one day, the class is of 2 hours. You will have to practice after watching the class. And after practicing, next you have
to learn recursion and backtracking. These are one of the most important parts
of the whole Data Structures and Algorithms. Because if you know recursion, that
means you know DP, trees, graph. The most questions are asked from
these topics in interviews and tests. So if you can do recursion and backtracking properly, then you can easily go through these topics. So I've added the playlists link. Go there, you can find the whole playlist, you
can learn recursion and backtracking there. And here for both C++ and Java links are there. You can find most of the videos in C++ and Java. Some might just be Java but
generally DSA is language independent. It is taught in pseudo code. So you can convert it into your language. Learning concept is more important. So you will be able to do this in 7 days. Recursion, backtracking videos won't be that much. 2 classes of 2 hours, along that you will get another 3 hour class. So you will be able to do basic recursion, backtracking. Along that, you have to solve questions, I'll come to that below. I will provide a whole list, topic wise that you have to solve. To practice. Next are the basic data structures, which you have to do. First is arrays, second is linked list, third is queues. Array's, stack's, linked list's playlist has been added. And generally you have to understand pattern. Like in arrays, there are many types of questions. There are prefix sum questions, two pointer questions. There are topic pattern for these things. You have to understand these patterns. And solve the pattern question. So along that, the list I was talking about, I'll show you. You can check out by going in that list all these. Which patterns are there, everything's divided in patterns, so if you solve it then you'll be done. After doing this, next important
suggestion is to start giving contests. How can you start giving contests? Go to Leetcode, there are weekly,
bi-weekly contests, start participating. When you've learnt this much, then your first, second questions will start solving. Because generally they are on arrays, linked lists, stacks. So you'll be able to solve the basics. So doing them is very important. If you don't do this, don't learn new things, then you'll be stuck, You'll go into tutorial hell. And after going there, getting out is very difficult. You think you've learnt everything but,
actually when you start solving questions, you won't be able to do it. So you'll get demotivated. Learn along practicing. Then 25 days are done, almost a month is complete. Then we have to learn searching, sorting,
hashmaps, trees, heaps, sliding window. Here I've, generally we do binary searching, I will attach the binary search video. Along that you'll find all the videos of sorting. You've learnt sorting. You'll find videos for hashmaps, trees, heaps. There's no video for sliding window but
we'll add that quickly after taking the class. So that you can learn sliding window as well. By the time you come to day 40,
these resources would've been added. So this is the part till 40, you will get to
learn some complex data structures till 40. Next 41-65, we are giving the most days here, just to learn DP and graphs. Because most of the questions,
most of the things are from graphs. So I've added all the topics in graph. The ones you have to do. Some of the topics classes will be there. We've added BFS, DFS, topological sort class. You can watch that, learn it from there. The rest, we'll keep adding them slowly, but for now, there are videos for these topics. So you can go there, you can learn from these videos. Next, DP, videos of DP are also added. Basically learning memorisation is really important. When you learn recursion, then how
to memorise the recursion solution, then how to convert it into tabulation. In online test, its just until memorisation. There's no need for tabulation. Because you just have to solve the question,
you don't have to show it to anybody. But when you are giving interview,
then you also need to know tabulation. Memorisation is when you can save with
recursion, you are saving DP in a recursive way. And tabulation is when you are solving it in an iterative way. So these are the difference. Here you will find these things. From here you can learn DP, graph. All of their resources is added. This is more than total 60 hours of
content, which you'll find in the playlist. You can learn all the things one by one. Next is you have to do OOPs in 66 -75 days. OOPs videos will soon be there. We'll add it by the time you come here. OOPs is very important, there's also basic LLD here. Low level design, OOPs. So it is also asked. You have to know encapsulation,
abstraction, virtual class, friend class. Because this is asked in interviews. So we'll add that. Till here, basic data structures will be done. So, I told already to start giving contests. Next is finally, these are some important topics. Tries, bit maniuplation and number theory
is asked sometimes in the interview. If not in interviews, then it does come in contests. We have taken one of the number theory class
live on Algoprep YouTube channel by Subhesh. You can check out the link. Generally all those classes are taken by Subhesh live. So you don't have to do anything, subscribe to Algoprep. Notification comes, study the things live. Bit manipulation videos are already
there in the playlist, you can see it. Finally, after doing all this, you've done the whole DSA. After doing the whole DSA, what you need is to make a resume. To build a resume, you need projects,
for projects you need project ideas. So I made a video, you can watch this. I've told 40 project ideas. I'll add its link along that. Let's just do it now. . So from here you can learn the project ideas. After doing project ideas, you have to make resume. So these are important tips for resume. There's a resume template, you can go see that. How to make a resume end to end, what to add, avoid is taught. Then importance of LinkedIn profile,
how to make it, there are tips for that. You can find the whole video there. Do watch all these resources. This is going to be very important. And finally when you have to apply off-campus, then there
are many tips, tricks which generally people don't know. How to take referral, what is template,
I've told all these things in this video. You can definitely go see that. So do watch these 4 videos when your DSA is done. There's nothing wrong even if you see it before. But yeah, do watch it after. And finally there's Algoprep 151 sheet. Here you'll find all the questions. So you'll get arrays, two pointers, recursion, backtracking,
bit manipulation, hashmaps, heaps, binary search, linked list. You will find the important questions for all the topics. There are total 151 questions. You have to do these. That is, without these it won't work. You have to do these. I've also added the link for this. Do this. As you read topics, solve these questions along that. You'll find many videos of these on YouTube. I'll have them added in the links, whatever's available. Whatever's not, we'll keep adding them consequently. So this is the whole roadmap. You are getting a lot of free resources here. Also when you are starting this, do download the app. Write the date of when you are starting. And you'll find your accountability partner on the Algoprep app. The link for IOS, Android plus website will be below. You just have to go on, log in Algoprep.in,
you'll find the community there, going in the community you just have to upgrade day 1, 2, 3. The main important work is to start studying. There's no alternative to hard work. There's no other way. You have to work hard, give 5-6 hours a day. Then you can have fun later. And if you don't give time, you'll regret it later. You'll have to work hard later. We need a very good work life balance because to have 
everything you've dreamed of, doing hard work is important. Doesn't matter if you failed in JEE-Mains,
whether you are in good college or not. It won't matter much in off-campus. Your coding skills, programming
skills, resume, projects is focused. If you improve these things, then everything can be done. Along that, do check out Algoprep.in. We have launched new courses there. And yeah, if there's any extra offer,
I'll add that in the description, see that. And do follow the sheet. There's nothing to do for sheet, there will be a link, register on it, you'll find the link for the sheet. Go on it, you will have all the things. Then just start studying. Also added all the free resources. Just start working hard. Thank you so much for watching this video. I hope you liked this, if you did then
like it, subscribe to the channel. Also share it with your friends, make an accountability partner. Start working hard. Everything will be good. Yeah, we'll meet in the next video. Till then, Bye!