Hi Everyone,I Hope you're doing well So finally,after 4 months of continous efforts we are here with a very detailed DSA sheet for you You must have heard about DSA sheet alot,as many sheets are available My DSA sheet is also available already But what is different in this DSA sheet You guys have to watch the video till the end to know this But if i tell you briefly,so what happens with time that people recognise more patterns & DSA questions are clubbed in those patterns Earlier not so many patterns were recognised because no one started making DSA sheets,but gradually many people started making it & as with time it gets modified Better DSA sheet's started to come This DSA sheet is going to be one of the best out there that is currently available ok watch the video till the end,you'll get to know about it so the questions here are first divided into topics then they are divided into patterns ,within every topic there are multiple patterns and within multiple patterns questions are arranged according to the difficulty level Not the difficulty level which is given on the Leet code because the difficult level is given according to ourselves there difficulty level which the student faces while solving those questions So there's a simple reason why we choose Leet code platform specifically Many people tried to make their own platform,us too but we came to know that you guys will ultimately go to leet code,it has happened earlier too many people created the platform,big companies have also created that but but you guys keep on working on Leet code so we thought of leveraging that Ok,Let's start.we have four DSA sheets,with different purpose So for the first DSA sheet,which is comparatively new That is OA sheet,when you visit website you can check contest,we'll discuss that too But let's check out Fraz's OA sheet Here you'll get list of companies : Google Facebook TCS Accenture & other companies for which student aims we've clubbed similar questions from OA round of those companies here Let's check under Cisco.we can get questions for 2022 & 2023 year Here you'll get Google questions from 2023-2024 year which are similar as of their OA round Not exact questions,they're modified a bit but you'll get the idea of level & type of questions TCS Accenture & others...also this sheet is an incremental sheet as we've added the number of companies we can add due to the constraint of Launch time frame and other will go live in coming time,How to use this sheet ? So ,i'll tell you in combined format on how to use it effectively Let's go to Fraz's all DSA pattern,this is an amazing sheet,so this sheet can be used by two sort of people One who doesn't know DSA,Coding & they want to master DSA & crack companies & maybe become competitive programmers so this sheet is sufficient for those & second those who have difficulty in a particular concept Like many people have problem in recurrsion,sliding window or if you want to learn graph to preapre for Google or Binary search,so you can learn those selective topics from here as there are good number of questions It becomes so dificult for us to narrow it down as we've reviewed all the 3000+ Leet code questions Solved them & figured out to try to arrange them after eliminating similar questions keeping them unique So don't need to go through the whole process of making this sheet ,but yes it is very detqailed For example let me give you an idea,Like stack is a topic,there is a pattern where questions are asked based on paranthesis problem,we've kept them together.There are many questions we can get them from easy to difficult Then there are problems of design,like create something after using two stack: mini stake,dinner plate stack so these are the design problems,after that in advance stack problems,which are a little difficult to think and then monotone stack questions are placed according to the difficulty level & again in these patterns there are questions with similar types are placed together like if you've done first with solution then do second on your own Next i will show you the DP ,all the patterns of DP like linear,2D,DP on grid,snap sac,LIS LCS DP and then there is Dynamic programming 2 as well in which dp git mask,digit dp can be found  You'll be amazed when you'll explore it on your own but now how does a beginner start for beginner if you'll go on top you'll get programming fundamentals in which C++ & Java are available python & Javascript will be addedd soon,you can choose anything like C++,so few lectures are given here whose articles you can read & those concepts will be clear So someone who's starting from 0 level can also learn programming from here there are few basic articles for : IF else,Switch case,functions variables all of these are explained and these are sufficient to start with problem solving then we've mentioned time complexity,space complexity & what are online judges Next thing is DSA fundamentals as now after space & time complexity you must solve some problems of control flow,array,loops,pattern printing : star patterns,number patterns & all these are available here you can read and learn them easily here,and you can see that the articles are written in so simple language that there are much more details that you'll not get stucked or bored while reading these articles I know reading articles is a bit boring,Making videos this fast was not possible but if you want all of the videos should also be made,then definitely Let me know in the comment section It will be a complete course & paid courses are also not these long So do let me know in the comment section,and these articles are yet to come on which coming soon is mentioned they are under progress & will get added incrementally,so this was your DSA sheet It's going to cover all DSA patterns in very detailed view Next is Fraz's Interview sheet,which is a subset of all pattern DSA sheet with 300 questions which are suficient for interview & are frequently asked in interviews Those who are on interviewere's tips,Fourth is Fraz's last minute sheet which is a subset of interview sheet this is for people who forgets that their interview is coming & two-three weeks are left  so this is for them to go through specific major topics ,so we've told about the sheets, so let's discuss some features of this DSA sheet,how to complete this what happens many time,we often start the sheet & lack motivation & we leave it midway We recently collected this data that many people leave courses even after paying Even they start DSA sheet & leave it,so we've tried to motivate you a bit,
let say if you're solving a problem you'll be getting a medal and as you maintain your streak you'll get more medals,just to motivate you,medals are introduced and your streak would also be visible: as current,maximum strek So, it will also be useful here that in the process of making athlete streak, you will read something or the other here, hence your streak will be maintained here, you will see how many times you have done so.  Do the questions on which day, you will see the activities of the last seven days, progress will be seen and all the sheets are there, their progress will be tracked separately as you come in it, go through all the patterns and here if you mark one question then mark any problem.  Let's see, if you mark division game in game theory, then here you will know that brother, you have taken a problem easy here, okay now it is 1200.  There are questions here, if a person is in first year or someone is in second year, he thought of doing this that I will do everything, still it is not possible to do 1200 questions for revision, again so for that what you can do is which questions. You can skip those questions which you find easy and those questions which you find difficult, if you have taken a hint from somewhere, you can mark them as revision.  If I can then I will mark whatever question is there for revision here and if I ask to show the revision list then that revision list will appear in front of me. This is my own made revision list so that I have to do this question again.  If you want to see then you should also utilize this feature well. There is a search feature. If you want to see that brother, this problem is very important and let me search and see that brother has solved it.  If you have entered it or not then do a search and see. Rest of the search feature is not of much use. You will be able to search only if you remember the name of the question. Let's move on to the next thing. Let me show you a very good article. I am a monotone stack within the stack.  There is a question in Next Greater Element is a very famous question of monotone stack, you can practice it by coming here and you can read the  Solution which is provided by Learn Aard Now the solution which is provided by Learn Aard takes you from the most brute force approach to the most optimal approach. The first thing is that it is mandatory, the second thing is that it is very seamless.  What is the thought process, what could we use here, what were the options available, once you see this  I will not be able to tell you after reading the entire article, but in this video you can get the idea, problem statement explained, example explained and after that it was said that try solving it yourself and then root force approach explained and how the root force approach is working, he explained it to someone.  You do n't understand it. If you do, you can skip this section. If you want to read the article quickly, then do a dry run to explain it well to some people.  I don't understand at first, they understand by dry run, after explaining well, then explained the code in all languages ​​and then after that also gave time complex explanation that why is the time complex n cube and then space complex when to  Use this approach and then say that as we saw that the time complexity of root force is n cubed which is insufficient for large input.  So let's move forward building a more optimized approach, then how to reach the optimal solution, we have explained it well, ok, very detailed, read this article once and see if you understand the concept of monotone stack.  If you don't know, then I will tell you which article you have to read. I also told you dry and proper what is the hash map brother, hash map, we introduced it here.  If anyone does not know what a hash map is, then read what is a brief hash map, why use a hash map, also told, then there is a video, so this video is just a visualization of what is happening in our algorithm. This video is a visualization of what's happening Then again there's a dry run Then again what's the codes take away brother What did you learn from this approach  Where can you use this approach? What is a monotone stack? Because till now we have not discussed that it is called monotone stack, this concept, how will you naturally come to this concept, after that we will tell you that brother, you naturally came to this solution yourself. Now this is called monotone stack, we have kept the tone of the article in this way Why use monotone stack and then few others  Questions Similar Questions which you guys can go and solve to test your knowledge. Okay, now let me show you another article in the same way. For those who do not know the concept of stack, there is also an article on bubble sort here. You can  Read This One Bubble Sort also explains in detail what is the intricacies of bubble sort why is it called bubble sort how does it work step by step and  There is also an optimized version of bubble sort, that too, if the articles are told then there are too many details, you should give it a try, read these articles and tell us how you liked these articles, we will also try to bring videos if you guys.  If you tell us, you can let us know in the comment section if you want videos. Even after reading these articles, if it is not needed then we will not bring videos if needed.  So we will make videos, okay now let's move on to the final thing, that is the contest, so brother, this is a 49 days contest, in this you have to solve the given minute sheet in which you have 97 questions, so you have to solve about two questions daily from that sheet.  You have to solve the streak and maintain it means every day you have to solve continuously for 49 days and every day whatever question you have learned. Solved whatever you learned from linkedinsign.com and what will be its benefit. Learn it will benefit from this that more people will know that the contest is going on and your learning will be shared with others. If you write a good post then More people will also be able to learn from him, this is what is going to happen with this and we will give prizes to the winners after the contest and here five people will get this gift from them. Headphones are for five people, Mechanical keyboards are for five Other winners Bag for five winners 100% off on Learn Art courses, 100% off will be given on whatever course is on that time and most probably on 90th day it will be DSA course Or if there is a front end dev course then 10 students will get off at 90, 20 students will get off at 70.  On of 30 students 60 off of 40 students and 50 off of 50 students So these are the prices around 175 something students are going to get this price Again this is just to motivate you The real benefit is going to be by solving your yes or no questions when  You will get a job worth 203 lakhs, then there is fun in that thing, this is a small thing to motivate you and push you.  It is for that athlete that you have given 50 days, how will you not be able to solve problems well, DSA, then you have to solve Faraz is last minute sheet, here you have to come every day and mark the key questions that you have read this thing. You want to read two-three topics in a day. After reading two-three, mark the questions here which you have to solve. All these on the leet code and then take a screenshot of it. You have to.  Post it on Lincoln by mentioning me tagging me and learn yard and I will comment and like your post as well after 49 days not after days exactly We will let this contest run if we assume that someone joins this contest even after a week or two And this contest is being displayed that it is live, they can also participate in the contest, it is not that it will end today itself. Enrollments will continue for the contest and after a certain time I will remove this contest from here, then understand that now you cannot enroll in the contest, but already if you have enrolled in that contest, it means that you are one of the winners.  It is possible, okay, now look here, to enroll in the contest, you have to click a simple button, a form will come, you have to fill this form, okay, I am in Dubai right now.  I am sitting here, it is coming in a little Arabic, so you have to fill the form, it will come on your side in English, after filling it, submit it from here, after submitting, it will ask here whether you have filled the form, then you should say that  Yes, I have filled the form, your enrollment is done, so brother, this DSA sheet is very amazing, explore the DSA sheet comfortably, compare, do whatever you want, start solving the questions my.  Intention will be to make you solve this DSA sheet, more tools for that and here we are going to plug in things that will help you in completing this DSA sheet, so start solving this whatever problems will be there slowly-  Will keep coming slowly thanks a lot for watching the video do give it a like if you are participating in the contest then do tell me by commenting that you are Participating in the contest and see you soon in the next video till then bye bye