 Hello friends, welcome to Gate Smashers  In this video we are going to discuss
 introduction to greedy algorithms  or what you can call greedy techniques  which is a very important topic in algorithm  So guys, like the video quickly, subscribe 
the channel if you haven't done it yet  and please press the bell button so that
 you get all the latest notifications  So let's start what is actually a greedy
 technique or what are greedy algorithms  Algorithms which follow local optimal choice at each stage with intent of finding the global optimum  What does it mean to say?  We go towards the best choice at every stage locally  Like we see with a simple example  Let's say this is my source  I have multiple paths from this source  And these paths take me to some destination  Let's say this is my destination D  This is my source and that is my destination  Now if we talk here, as soon as I started from the source  I am at this stage  It is saying that it follows the local optimal choice  What does local optimal choice mean?  At this stage, let's say the cost to go here is 10  The cost to go here is 20  The cost to go here is let's say 5  So what does it want to do in the greedy algorithm?  Greedy algorithm at this stage, the minimum cost  Cost wise means if we talk  The cost to go here is 5, 20 and 10  So what does it want to do?  First of all, it wants to follow this choice  What is the reason for that?  It follows the best or the optimal locally first  And on the basis of that, it says  With intent of finding the global optimum  Means it wants on the basis that I can find global optimum result  Or what I can do with global maximum result  And here if we talk  In this we talk about solution space,
 feasible solutions or optimal solution  I actually want to tell the greedy algorithm from a real life example  Like if we talk  As a student we have multiple career options  Like we have an option that let's say if I have chosen non-medical  So I have non-medical option that I can go to engineering line  Or if I have chosen medical option then I can go to medical line  Or I have banking sector option  SSE etc.  We can go for government jobs  Or we can choose our business entrepreneurship  Means I have multiple career options  You can call this a solution space  Means all these options are a solution space  But out of this solution space  We first find out feasible solution  What is the meaning of feasible solution?  Based on some selection criteria  Means we on the basis of selection criteria  Out of all the feasible, out of all the solution space  I will find out the feasible condition  I will find out the feasible solution  To find out feasible solution means  Let's say if I have done arts in 11th and 12th  Then obviously I can't go to engineering field  Means out of all the solution space  One field will come out from there  So what is my selection criteria?  Based on some selection criteria  You have to find out feasible solution  So let's say if I have arts then on my selection criteria  Engineering came out from here  Medical came out from here  Now what are the feasible solutions I have?  I can go to banking line  I can go to banking line after taking IBPS exam  I can go to SSE  I can go to government teacher or 
government assistant professor jobs  I can do business  I can open coaching centers  These are the career choices I have now  Out of all the feasible solutions  Now what we have to find out from that?  Optimal solution  Now what does optimal solution mean?  Because greedy algorithms are totally based on what?  Optimal solution  And what we have to do in optimal solution?  We focus here on minimum cost  What does minimum cost mean?  Let's say if we talk from this example  I have multiple feasible solutions  One is 10, one is 20 and one is 5  But which is the minimum cost among these?  The minimum cost is 5  So what I will do is choose the path with minimum cost  Because this is my optimal path  The minimum cost of such real life example that we were discussing  Means where my course fees are less  I will try to choose that path  Where my coaching is a little cheaper  I will try to choose that path  And the second thing we can do here is  Maximize the profit  What does maximize the profit mean?  That obviously I will try to choose that career path  Where I have maximum profit  Means where I get the highest pay scale  Or where the location can be  You have different criteria  That on which criteria you want to find maximum value  So here I will try to maximize my profit  Because what is the name of the algorithm?  Greedy  So what is greedy?  That you are greedy regarding profit  So whatever solution you give  Whatever problem you have  In that problem you will go towards the same solution  Which will give you maximum profit  Like if there is time for offers  So what do we do during the time of offers?  We will try to go to the same shop or mall  We will go to the same shop  Where I am getting maximum offers  Or the highest offer I am getting  Regardless of how the cloth is  Means whatever we are buying  Let's say if we buy clothes then how is the cloth?  How is the stuff?  It may be that in the future  I may not get the best solution  But locally at that stage  It is giving me the best solution  This is the main point of Greedy  That you try to find the best solution locally  So if you are finding the cost  Then you will go towards the minimum cost  If you are finding the profit  Then you will try to maximize the profit  If you are talking about risk  Then you will try to go towards the minimum risk  Means you will try to choose that part  Where the risk is less  Means like if we talk about investment  So we try to invest there  Where my risk is less  So this is the main point of Greedy  That at that stage  At the stage where you are standing  At that stage it tries to find the best result  So if your problem is related to cost  Then we will find the minimum cost  It is related to profit  So we will find the maximum profit  It is related to risk  So we will try to find the minimum risk  Regardless of what my find  What is my global solution here  It may be that there are many problems  Which I have written here  Like there is a problem with Napsack  Job sequencing  Minimum cost spanning tree  Optimal merge pattern  Huffman coding  Digestra algorithm  That is called a singer-sourcer test path  So all these problems  Are in the Greedy solution  They come in the Greedy algorithm  So basically we are doing this in them  Either I am finding the minimum cost  Or I am finding the maximum profit  Or I am trying to minimize the risk  But we focus on this  At the stage where we are standing  At that stage we find the best result  Globally your result is coming best or not  This does not give any guarantee  So this is a basic introduction  About Greedy technique  So in the next videos  We will discuss these problems one by one Thank You.