Hi, I am Nishant and welcome back to the channel. Today we will talk about two courses From that you can study data structure and Algorithms One course was made by Love Babbar and another was made by Harry Both of them are amazing and they both made a nice course They did an amazing job Just comparing two options, if you are starting the course of C++ , C and data structure Then which one would be a better choice for you guys? Just to make your life a bit easier In this video which I am making today, we will discuss al the pros and cons Final verdict is yours , whose pros are more good and cons are less  You can choose that So, without wasting time, let's start the video We wil go one by one. First I will talk about Codehelp First I will tell about  DSA course of Codehelp First of all our DSA couse is amazing, I have seen many videos The videos are too good, like, they taught in a very good way from basic to advance level So, These all are Pros They taught from scratch, like, how you can install these They told about the flowcharts They taught from flowcharts to DP So, you can see that all things are covered You will learn backtracking, dynamic programming, graphs. Dp process is ongoing now But other things are going very well So Kudos on that Plus this is free course. So much content you will not get free anywhere I think, at least related to DSA  There are other DSA related courses, but not structured like this That is a very good thing. A-Z is not there but some things are in ongoing process But from start it will take you to a certain great point So, this is about our course content. Plus this is claimed that, it is good for your interview preparation I really support that, as they have given so many questions here So many questions are there for all the topics Some you can practice on your own You will get detailed thing for all the topics, which is great Plus they have a code community If you have not joined yet. you can check their channel and join them if you want That is also a very good thing From where you will get access for the like minded people You can ask doubt and work with them You can learn anything from them. If you have any doubt you can write in the community and they will revert you And courses are almost complete that is a very good thing. And these are some of the pros which they have promised and delivered also Very good.... Now we will discuss about the cons. DP series is not completed and this process is ongoing from long time.. No doubt that, there are lot of Questions in DP series but that should end soon And it will end soon, because I had a talk with them and they are working on it so it will be done.. Second thing is, there are less questions in graphs As compared to all other topics according to me, there are less questions in graphs They can improve it. This process in ongoing so they can add more questions of graphs And that would not be a problem So these are the two cons I was editing a video and by mistake I have deleted some clips, that needed to be recovered So, I started searching for something by which I can recover those files One app is there Recoverit by which you can do that and it is by Wondershare So I will just go through the steps that, how you can recover your files You have to go to the website and click on free download and download it This is our recoverit from Wondershare, which I have already downloaded What you have to do next, you have to go to the external drive and scan the document which you want to recover Third step you can recover the video which you are trying to recover While the scanning process is going on I will tell you that you can do 1000 types of file formatting  here More than 2000 storage devises are compatible with this And more than 500 scenarios work here Recovery rate is more than 95% which is really great Scan is complete and we have got 78 files Now I will check this. Some of my files got deleted which you can see here You can see very less files here. As you can see, this file of mine was deleted, so, I will click on recover  It will ask to save my location, which I will save and my file got recovered as you can see. I got my file, which was deleted. Right? You can definitely check this out. You will get this in description. Lets go to our video Some videos are very long, so it becomes difficult to grab the attention span But if you dont have any problem with the long video, then no problem But if you can sit for 40 minutes, 50 minutes and 1 hour then no issues But average length of the videos are 25-30 minutes Some videos are 1 hour and 1 hour 30 minutes also So, I know how much effort they have given to make it. But it could have been broken into parts, so that it would be easy This is not a bad thing but yes, if they want to improve it, when they will make any new course Crisp videos are good but it is okay.. Some questions are more spoon feeding kind Because I have asked some people who had read their course They told me that, they really did spoon feeding in many questions He taught us very well You have to leave something to think also But it's great if you want to understand. Else,  if you are not understanding and want to try on your own you can skip the video and try This is not a con as such but was a review from the students with whom I talked to This also I wanted to bring it to your notice Now, I will come to the topic, Codes with Harry In Codes with Harry also there are C++, C and data structure series Where he has claimed in the starting that, this will help you to crack the interview But I did not like that Because he has missed some topics which are very important because in interview, they asked about those a lot The series I am talking about it will come here In this DP series, backtracking and recursion are not there these topics are very important for interview perspective So if you want to study from interview perspective, I will not recommend these series You can check Codehelp series. That is very good If you want to study Backtracking and recursion, that you can study from Code in 10 also They taught it in a very good way First I am talkinhg about cons. Many pros are also there started with cons so there is another con, that, very less questions are there as compared to Codehelp Quantity of question is more in Codehelp. Here questions are very less Mostly basic things were taught This was missing If some more questions were asked on the topics, which actually are asked in the interview then that could have become interview specific course, but it is not interview specific course now. So, these are the cons majorly Mostly these are the cons that, some topics are missing and questions are less This is not as much placement oriented, like how it did it's marketing in the first video. These are all reviews from the students as, honestly, I have not seen all the videos but I have seen some of them. but I am passing the reviews to you. Rest you can take your own decision If I talk about Pros, then there are many If you are studying for college degree and exam, then this is a very good course You definitely go and check it You will get very good marks in your college level and exams  You will not face any problem Other than this, there is no doubt that, whatever topics they have covered, are explained in a very good way Their way of teaching is very good. Whoever are there, they teach very well, we have no doubt on that  Next thing is, they have provided notes after every topic. So, if you want to screen through before exams and for college, you can do that This is great and the way they taught things, that is very easy to understand also You can understand topics and other things very well, that is great.. So, these were some pros and cons of both the courses.. Final decision is yours for which you are preparing  If you are learning for college and you are not preparing for exams then the choice is yours As compared to "Codehelp", course content is less in "Code of harry"   You can learn quickly and you will get notes also On the other hand, you will get more videos in "Codehelp". It is lengthy also So it will take more time to finish Because if you are preparing for placement, then, that would be a better choice   Because there are more questions and you will learn the implementation very well But time is also an important factor Other than this, you also have many options There is a channel of Striver, called "take you forward", you can learn from there also You can study from our Code intent also Other than this, there are many resources.  I have made a video from where you you can study DSA, free of cost You can get there. There is a link in the eye button, you can check there So, These information are there in this video. There is nothing to defame anyone here There was just a comparison, some pros and cons, which I brought in front of you Now you can do whatever you feel correct. Thank you so much for watching this video.  and if you like this video and get any information from this video. Lets meet in my next video. Bye for now..