So let us talk today about data structure implementation using c++, so today's lecture will be on this concept, A data structure. When we implement these concepts of data structure, then we call it data structure. We can define each of our concepts in one of these two ways. Will implement in one way, linear which we call sequential data structure and one is called non-linear, which we call non-sequential data structure and do not want static, if you do not want fix then you create your own space, store the data and then one. Create a space, store the data, give it a fixed memory space, and what happens if you declare it as 10, then you have got a memory of 10, now you cannot score more than 10. If less than dog then memory will be wasted so it is fixed memory. If I implement data structure from this concept then it will be static data structure then what happens. You are saying that you will start the data by making a note, meaning we are our own. We will create the memory of C but in such a way that our data structure gets strengthened and the rules of data structure are also not violet. Hello friends, welcome to the free course of Data Structure Using C Plus Plus, which was a request from most of us that Sir please. Start Data Structure Using C Plus Plus So let's talk today we will talk about Data Structure Implementation using C Plus Plus Right and today in this introductory video where today we are going to talk about one of the asset concepts because often it comes in the mind of the student that Sir Why read this subject, the same need of data structure, this subject is in demand in the industry and you see if I talk with my 20 years of experience where I have given more than 50000 students who have been placed. I have done Patata, so if I talk to you about my experience, I will always tell you that you can be IT professional, you should know data structure, professional, you should know D concept, only I am not talking about the contribution of your placement, I am not talking about the contribution of the industry. But Data Structure will teach you how you can do memory management, how you can store your data in an efficient way, which we will talk about later, don't worry, we are not talking about anything technical right now, in the beginning but What are we going to learn in this video or in today's lecture, today's lecture will be our most important concept, but today we will talk about data structure, right then once we read the same data structure, A data structure. We will get acquainted with it a little, by understanding the data structure, after that we will talk about what is data structure, what is the language of data structure, is data structure any software, is data structure any hardware. Exactly sir, this is what is it. This data structure right and once we are clear from both of these then our major concept will start that you implement this update using C plus plus you know very well I always say one thing that whenever someone When you start a new technology, these three questions should always come in your mind. One is of, our concept is what, what and ho, because unless you study the same, you will not study these two subjects of the industry, that is, if you do not study these two concepts, then even After reading the paper, if you do not know why you have studied that subject then it is useless to read it, so today our lecture will be on this concept, A Data Structure Right, so if you see if means I, A and what, a little bit. I will go to Mix Lake here okay so if we talk about the subject if you understand then now see if I divide the subject into two parts data plus structure ok now I will tell you the definition what is it D definition of data structure but before Starting date structure, let me clear you one thing in advance that data structure is not a language, data structure is only and only concepts which are being implemented to store a data in memory in an efficient way. So if If you look at this entire subject then I divide it into two parts and both of these are not new words for us, we also know what data is and we know the meaning of structure in a general term. Right now if I If I explain it to you then what will I tell you? Data means what other individual is called data. Every individual is a data. Your name is a data. Your roll number is a data. Address is a data, your phone number is a data and you see today if we talk about word industry and IT industry then you see on what any software depends on data, today if you do it to social media then what do you give. What data are you providing on WhatsApp? What data are you providing on Gmail? What data is Google giving you? Today we are talking about data and this data. Today we are talking about the data that is floating around. In huge amounts, the matter is how efficiently this data should be stored so that when that data is required for you in future, it remains easily available. Just think about it. If you think a little about this thought process, then you will get You will understand that no day there is a lot of data floating in social media Facebook Twitter WhatsApp Gmail Google, how much data is there Insta, okay how much data is there, what we are using on social media, then the question is, how to use this data? How should this data be arranged in the memory? How will the arrangement be structured so that when this data is required, it is easily available to me? Allocate the data in memory with minimum space complexity. Right, here you understand that structure means arrangement. [Music] Arrange your data in structure format in proper format. If we talk in general term then what did you do? Suppose you have any books. Now you want that books are properly available for me in future. You can take a look in the library. Take the huge bus to the library. If there are 10000 books, then how are they arranged in the library? What is their structure in the library? All these computer science books have been kept on one side. All the match books have been kept on one side. Okay, one commerce book. Science book is kept on one side and if you see in computer science also, some different structures are made there that this is a book related to language, this is a book related to database, this is your SQL . This is your book related to Java, that is, what happens there also is that the more properly the data is arranged in a structure, the more easily it will be available at the time of searching because the simple thing is that the structure of the data has to be kept properly. So that in the future, if the data is to be retired, then the date data should be easily available, so here the paper which we are going to start today, this entire paper will explain to you that this data should be stored inside the memory in what it is related to. Of D data with unordered data it is okay to pay attention to the second statement here is the thing when we do that the data structure is okay to store the data then the data structure is to say memory data store is okay in second most important what What is this relation of data and data right? What it means is that when you store a data in the memory, if you want it to be stored according to the rules of the data structure, that is the concept of data structure. If we do it then this definition should fit perfectly that the existence of data in the memory also depends on the relation, how is your data maintaining the relation and now look, even if we do not talk about data storage data structure, you have also used data storage. You must have seen in different ways that you store data by creating a file in Excel, you use Notepad to store it, if it is good for data storage, then the concept of data structure is implemented everywhere here, that means if you look at the file of Excel, you will get the data structure there. If you look at the database, you will find the data structure there, then the meaning of the column is that the data structure tells you that concept, that method, this whole paper tells you that concept, that way, how many ways data can be stored in the memory. But whatever is common in all these concepts will be common in all these triangles. [Music] Hey, concept means ways of thinking, if you have read object oriented programming before then you know what is object oriented programming, object oriented programming and nothing but concept is only concept, only methods, absolute polymorphism, data heading up area. What is the concept of everything? So when we understand the concept of object oriented, when we understand that good data heading means this, its resolution means this, inheritance means this, this is called polymorphism. So when we understand these concepts then what do we do? Whenever we understand these concepts then what do we do? Let's implement these concepts, okay, like in C Plus Plus, you have implemented the concepts, okay and I hope you are coming from object oriented, then in your programming you must have written the code for generation, you have done encapsulation, you have done class. When you create an object, you just implement the concept of object oriented like a child. Here you have to implement the concept of data structure. I hope you have understood in the first step that there is a need of data structure because if your data. It is implemented with data structure , so it is sure that it will locate the memory in a data efficient way, the complexity of the memory of the data will be minimized, right, now the question does not come, sir, just like you explained the concept of object oriented, inheritance. What are the concepts of data structure that we are talking about now ? There are a lot of concepts which I will discuss further. Now we have to talk about data structure. Store the data in stock form. Store the data in the form of ' Why do you want data in circular form?' Okay, you have to talk about data structure. You support the data in the tree form. You store the data in the form of a table. Okay, there are two-three methods in itself. Why is circular tree and table linked list okay? So the data structure says that each concept describes the storage of data in itself and without all these concepts, now you only understand their names, now you will not understand at all, why this type, why circular, what is because first. When we have to study any technology, we are not aware yet but I am talking to you about the concept and when I will teach all these concepts, you will see that this definition has been fulfilled on all D data, you will be stored inside D memory. In what is relation of data with data inside, if there is no relation then it is not a data structure implementation. Keep this in mind that when we talk about implementing any of these concepts of this data structure. Here we actually divide the data structure into two parts. On the right, when we implement the concept of data structure, we say that the data structure will implement each of its concepts in one of these two ways. Understand carefully. One liner data structure is right. Non linear data structure is right. Linear and non linear is right. Non linear data structure is right linear which we call sequential data structure and one is called non-linear which we call non sequential data structure. Now this is exactly in your mind. Don't raise questions that Sir, this is in the major part of C++, you have not told anything yet in the introduction, you had said data structure using c++, I am coming, we will do all the concepts, keep listening, just keep understanding, copy, pen and keep taking notes. Right, data structure. Whatever concept we are going to read right now like you link circular increase multiple stock trigraph okay, apart from this, Has Table, every concept has been divided by the data structure into one of these two categories or we will say the third structure. Either we will say that this data structure is sequential data structure or we will say that it is non-sequential data structure but now what is the difference between these two that if the data structure says that every concept of mine is sequential then now see actually when we say linear data structure. If we talk about data structure or sequential data structure, then you will see that all the concepts that I will teach you will come in the liner, there you will know where to start and where else to do, it is okay, like on the example, if you have done a little CC If you have read Plus Plus then if you read it then you will know that indexing always starts from zero and till how far you have to go, we say till N, which means whatever number is so you know. Hey, where should I start from and where should I start from? Hey again, this is an example of data structure. Whatever I have written, there is also in it and now I am going to talk without any doubt that whenever there is any example of data structure. If the concept is also implemented then all these concepts will be related to the background data structure. This is the most important part of what is the background data structure. I am coming to what is the meaning of background data structure that every concept, story or story has someone in the background. no data structure Will write it, so let's not get confused right now, whatever I am telling you, what is the meaning of liner, what is the sequence of it, its type of data structure, like, hey, the implementation is ok from the start, when we will implement, hey, statue or link please, ok. What does this mean? First understand it and the concept of Statue Linked List from one account. B1 Secular means all the parts of it. Then it is okay, when you see the implementation in all these, you will see one thing in common, this sequence will be maintained . Where you will know that this is my starting point and this is my ending point whether it is hey, whether it is stock, whether it is circular, whether it is multiple steps, whether it is double ended, whether it is linked list. Be it a doubly linked list, be it a circular link list, be it any linked list, right because we are going to read multiple types of linked lists too. Dubbing please circular link please doubly circular include single circular increase but what is common in all these children, this which belongs to linear data structure. We belong to sequential data structure. We belong to linear data structure because here in every concept you will see that you know the starting and you know the ending. You know where you have to start and you know where you have to go. If you have read Hey then you see you think Hey I whenever you are searching or shorting or whatever application you perform Hey I know when you start from zero and go till N - 1 you understand the thing The idea is that it always starts from zero and your code executes till N - 1. This is N - 1. So you have understood the linear data structure, but right now I am not telling you any of its concepts. What is this type , what is circular, all this is discussed. Now in the introductory video, you should understand what exactly we have to study in data structure, what is this paper, what to say, why is it retired, why is it needed, why is it right. In the second phase, if we talk about non-linear, okay, one day I told you, this is second non- linear, now this is called non-linear data structure or this is called non-sequential data structure. Right, what is this non-linear or non-sequential data structure? It says just see now the definition is applicable on both na ho d data is to be stored inside d memory what is d relation of d data with and other data because I am telling you again and again if there is no relation then data structure It is not non-linear, I have to say, it is a relation but not a sequence, it is a non-sequential data structure like if suppose, we will talk further now, don't worry, if mother lo, I do the fairy implementation, mother lo of the right, I have made a tree, tree and example of. The data structure is ok, given, this is an example of data structure. Take this mother, I made a tree, given ABC, ok or ABC is ok, then I divided it into multiple parts, ok, then I divided it, ok then this. Which is the data structure, write this again, IT, IT structure, now why is this data structure, take any one, A B C D I F H A G K, if you want, make a tree of numbers, now we will talk about the tree, right, what is there in the tree? Where do we start, I will be interested, this is the root of my tree, the root is called in Hindi, this trick is starting from here, but where else will the tree be, you can tell by looking at a tree, if you have seen a tree. Yes, you have seen the tree, there is a beginning where the tree is but where else it is happening, this is also a trick ending because it has multiple branches, so where will your trick go and where will it happen, you never know but what is the best part in it. There is some connection in memory in what is this relation so relation is there is no relation that if I talk about tree then what is tree it is an example of data structure because it is mental it is maintained in relation but there is no sequence here I Don't know the sequence , where will the tree of rights start, where will it end, that this is ok, the ending is this, the trick ending is this, the track ending is this, this is also, but the sequence is not known, but there is a relationship, neither when we If we store data in tree format, what benefits will we get in the future? What are the advantages of storing data in tree format? We will also talk about this further, which will be our non-sequential data structure. What is non-sequential data? Structure right, tree and example of non sequential data structure, now what can be the examples of non sequential data structure, okay or non linear data structure, we are talking about example graph, okay now what is this graph, you know what is this graph. If you look at the graph, what does the graph look like? If it is a tree, but the graph will be in such a way that it tells the distance that you have to walk from one place to another, then the graph will be like this. You must have ever seen this is It is connected to it, it is connected to it, so what is this, what is this graph, now here also you tell me where to start, where and what to do, I don't know but there is a relation to this, what is this data, you are the store of today. Till the end of the lecture, I will make you set this definition in your mind. D data is you stored inside D memory and what is D. Relation of D data with inside data and date is what D key point of data structure . So you have seen. What was happening in the linear data structure? What was happening in the linear data structure? What is this sequence in the linear data structure? What is this non-linear data structure ? This is an example, this is more data structure, so we will come to Pari and they will learn lot of trees, we will talk about binary tree, binary search tree, one way bill tree, red black tree, height balance trick, okay fear are lot of trees. Are available right, we will talk about concepts in graphs, linear graphs, non-linear graphs, where we are going to see multiple types of graphs. Okay, but when I will teach these topics in data structure, then before starting these topics, I will tell you I will tell you that this is an example of non-linear data structure . Link data structure has divided itself into two categories. What is linear and non-linear data structure and what is non-linear data structure. Let's move ahead right step. Now let's talk a little . A little bit of technical concept, when we go into data structure in a little more detail, then we understand that the implementation of data structure. Listened carefully, now all these concepts I have told you, now I have to implement these concepts. No I need you to implement this concept Sir I want to see the stock implementation I want to see the why implementation Okay so I need to see the implementation of your circular why I want to see the tree implementation So when we talk about implementing the concept of data structure Look, there are a lot of places where you will get the concept of data structure already implemented. Just a lot of example which I am going to tell you further where you will get a strike implemented where it is already implemented. Okay, but if you take just one example . Let me tell you so that you don't have this confusion, I will come back to this. If you suggest, see, this is the type, let's see a small example, it is a bit interesting concept , no doubt, when I come to this topic, you will read the complete details. But if you said at this time then what is the tech, what is it? Sir, this tech is a way of storing data which reduces on the rule of LIFO, last in first round means this type, what is the data structure that stores the data in. D format of last in first out, this rule is tag, packet of biscuits, the one who comes in last, will come first, okay, keeping the press clothes, date is n state, but all these real words are examples only for understanding, first time, but sir, you are this. Tell me in system implementation, where is the stag implemented in computer, in IT, because interview and will expect technical example from you, it is very good to understand like a packet of biscuits, but in the interview, you have one answer technical, then I will come when I teach the stack, son, don't be the last. There is only one meaning of these first out, you should understand that the exact implementation means what to say in this type, the element will be entered from this and will be deleted from this and the one which came last will go out first, so if you have read CC Plus. A little right, so if you answer the question, I did a function in ABC yesterday, it's okay and in ABC I did a function. Function done yesterday _ Now you see what will come out first : The memory which is there stores the data in stock form. Reckon for function is an example of stock and two. If you have read a little bit of C then you tell me if I have to write integer a equals tu 50 b equals tu 30 c = 90 ok. And if I write here done [music] what is it D output half then they will say after Aam Laga ke then write B is to be printed that C is to be printed is A is to be printed I said I have not written anything I have written all this you Write send text vice baat nahi rahe apan hum baat rahe concept vijay write return zero all this is fine if I run it bill get d answer try to understand a little bit how did 90 come when allocating variable memory In C language, they do it in the state form, first A, then B, then C. All three variables have located the memory. If I think of this as common and write B, then it will print the value of B. C will print the value of C, then A will print that. Will print the value of A but when we do not tell anything, if you just write print or give percentage then your program will directly go to C and print it here, whatever is the last variable of yours, so what will I get the output here, why 90 because What is the value of C? 90 then again start implementation last seen first out in C when we lock the variable memory in stock form then this is the concept which is already implemented and there are lot of examples of lot of K's example is your mobile. Mom, take the receiving capacity of your mobile 30 yesterday, propose 30 yesterday, receive 30 till tomorrow right, now I did it yesterday, mom, I bought a new mobile, I and someone else's yesterday came first mother, take my friend's yesterday came Rajesh Now when Rajasthan will come first but after that as tomorrows will come, Rajesh will move ahead and when 38 flowers are reached and when tomorrow number 31 comes then Rajesh's tomorrow will automatically be out [Music] So all this is already the concept of data structure. It is implemented, isn't it? Son, stag implement. Now I told you why implementation is right but if we have to implement the concept of the statue, then listen when we talk because to implement the concept, we say that every concept of the data structure is either Whether it is in linear category or non-linear but when they have to be implemented then we say that every concept of data structure is implemented in these two ways, static data structure and dynamic data structure. Data structure concept is implemented in these two ways. We can implement every concept of data structure in static format or in dynamic format. What is meant when we talk about implementing the concept of data structure in static format and when we talk about implementing data structure in data format. So what does it mean, if I am saying very straight, why is it okay, why is it okay to be circular, or in addition to this, tree or in addition, graph, we can implement all these concepts in the data structure in static form as well as in dynamic form. I can implement , I can also create static, I can create study , let's create static, so here we have this meaning, what will you do to implement this type, let me tell you, I have to implement a strike, I want a collection which is lasting first. So, ultimately, now if we are a little aware of programming language, then what have we read, what will I do, someone will do that , to implement all this, then I have two ways to implement the concept of data structure. Either I am doing it, you are doing it in the background to implement the constants of the data structure or the other option is that you do it with the link list, listen carefully, you do it with the link list, okay, it means basically . I don't know the note format but I don't worry about this either. There is no need to take too much load, the concept is very simple that either I will implement these concepts by making it or I will implement these concepts by creating links. The difference is that if you are implementing these concepts by using are then Now what will you say, do you know if you create this type with Hey then you will say your background data structure Hey and if you implement this strike with link list then what will you say Do you know your background data structure link list load The difference is that it is static, it is dynamic, when we implement the data structure in static form, it means that you know, if there is one, then there is only one imitation of ours, if I call this track, hey, someone can do that. If I make it, mother, take it for yourself, so it is your capacity, isn't it? If you have taken the ray of 10 from A of zero, and if this is your strike, then as soon as the last element comes tenth, it will overflow, it has overflowed because Stock, if you understand the concept of any data structure, if you make it in static form, then static means son, fixed memory, not more than this, not less than this, this is static memory, I will come further, what is static, what is dynamic, very detailed. Now we will talk about the introduction, you only understand the meaning of static data structure, this is the answer, we are implementing the concept of data structure with are, so you bill get overflow like exact overflow, why overflow circular, why overflow because these are limited. You know about memory because it allocates memory at compile time. It allocates fixed memory to it. If you have studied then you know that memory is fixed. This is compile time memory. CC Plus Plus I am talking about you, implementation is also going to be done regarding this. Right second concept comes that you implement the data structure in such a way that if you think that you have to store the data and do not want static, do not want fixed, then you Create your own space, start the data, what time do you mean, and what happens if you declare, you cannot score more than 10 out of 10, less than 10 people are memory waste, so this is fixed memory, if I use this concept. If I implement the data structure from this, then this static data structure will be less. He said, friend, do one less, don't enjoy the study. You need memory for implementing the study, for data storage, then you create your own memory, dynamic runtime memory at run time, so you have What did you do? Stored the data of the memory located. Then stored the data of the memory allocated. Then stored the data of the memory. Now this is not an imitation, you store the data but the question is, Sir, I am in the memory. I am creating, I am storing data, I am creating memory, I am storing data, I am creating space, I am storing data, but this space that I have created, what are these spaces called, what is this space, what is this space actually called? If it is nude then note is nothing. The space we create to store the data at run time is called note. Go me concept then note. Whenever anyone asks what is a note, you are saying that you will support the data . By making a note, a note means we will create our own memory but in such a way that our data gets stored and also the rules of data structure. Think about the meaning of eating the name Violet, now I told you to reduce one, create your own memory, data store . Do it, create the memory, start the data, you are doing it right, it is not an imitation, but think for yourself, tell me, the memory you are creating, to start the data, is it according to the rules of the data structure, what is the rule? What is the definition of data structure? What is the meaning of data structure? Data is the way inside memory, what is it? Relation, when data is stored in static form, it becomes a relation because memory allocation is what remembers you in the relation form. You must have read that line address is always in sequential order that whenever someone allocates memory then hey always allocates memory in sequential format if its address is two zero zero one then the next address structure but what I just did what do You think what I just did, is this a data structure? You made a note, you kept the data, you kept a note, you made a note, meaning space, place in Hindi, you have created a space, you have created a date, this is a data structure, is this a data structure? Isn't it because I have to speak data structure, relation is also good brother-in-law, so what will I do, when I make this note, every note will have some address or the other, this address is this address, this is this address, this is this address, this is this address, this is its right, so what am I? I am going to give this address to this one, so this note will be connected to it because I have to maintain the relationship, this address will be given to this one, so it will be connected to this one, this address will be given to this one, so this note will be connected to this one and the first note will be I will tell you, this is the initial load, the start and the last note, I will tell you, brother, if you don't have anything, then you keep the tap, what did you do? I understood, I created the note at run time and that note was linked together and the first one. If you say the note, it becomes the start, you say the last note, don't sign it in your address, now at run time I have stored the data, its advantage is that there is no imitation, you load the data, create the data, keep the note, Those who create and keep the data, who create notes, who keep the data and connect them together, two collections offer notes in which the first note and the address of the last note are taped. Oh children, what have I done, I have made a link list, this is what link list now. I can make it a strike, I can apply this type of rule on it, I can apply KK rule on it, I can apply circular rule on it because now, if I make a stag and keep the data, listen what do you I said, when I am making the step in Hey format, what will I say to you using this tag? Hey, when I will implement this strike by making a link list, what will I say? [Praise] Location Run Time Memorial Location If you have given a hello message then hello. You will allocate the same amount of memory as there are characters, you will allocate the same amount of memory, date is what, run time, memory, but the data structure is to say that you can implement every concept in static form as well, you can also implement it in dynamic form. So actually what do we have to do in this paper? In this paper, first of all, listen to the one line I said, if you are implementing the concept of data structure by making it, then what will you say, do you know if you have made a stock using it? You were asked what is your background data structure, then you understood the background data structure, what is the meaning of background data structure, it is reducing each one's sorry, then you said, so what is your background data structure, here it is in dynamic form. I implement, what will I say, what is my background data structure, then I will say, background mathematics of data structure, so now we have talked about implementing this entire data structure in two formats, we have understood the same data structure, we have understood this. What is data structure? What is the concept of data structure? But now the story starts here. Sir, you have told how this type of concept is implemented. Yes, memory is sorry. Your function allocates stock memory. Why is it implemented in mobile? You told me. What is making given link list? Hey, what is stock implementation, what is tree, what is graph, see, the major question comes, Sir, tell me these two formats that you have created, how will I implement them or how will you tell me in the form of a static strike or what method will you use? Now if I want to implement all these concepts, if I want to implement the concept of data structure, then here I need a language and the language is such that it matches the current scenario. If we talk about language required and object oriented language, where I have to implement the concept of data structure in object oriented form, then the question is that ultimately you have understood the concept but how will you implement these concepts. Here I need a language by which I can easily implement the concept of data structure and that language should be the best language which is also an object oriented language and which can help us in implementing the concept of data structure, then object oriented form . If you want to implement data structure with C++ then dates father reason which we talked about in the beginning is that you should learn data structure on C++, it is understood that data structure is right on C++ because the concept of data structure is understood. If you have to implement then you should understand that this note is compulsory. Data structure of C++ is implemented only in C++. Concept of data structure. If you are implementing SIM then what will you say. What are you studying? Data structure using C. If you are interested in data structure. If you are implementing the concept in Java then what will you say? You are reading Data Structure Using Java Data Structure Using Python Data Structure Using C Sharp Data Structure Using C++ So the subject I have taken here is Data Structure Implementation Using C Plus Plus Its reason is that c++ is both procedure and object oriented programming language, so here we get programming support in procedure format and I also get programming support in object oriented form, here I can also study implementation easily, here dynamic I can also do the implementation easily so that was the reason here we have talked about data structure using C plus plus so just retirement this is that before starting data structure whatever you mean and I am telling you that if I use C++ it I will start on implementing this concept of data structure so you should be aware with DC plus plus you should know C plus plus date date this is only requirement on implementing this concept of data structure using C plus plus however we will start with but when we will talk about its coding implementation that Compulsory You Should Know D C Plus Plus Concept Class Objects Okay Polymer Then Ground Capsule You Know All These Concepts I Hope You Are Reading Data Structure Using C Plus Plus Scores Only After Reading All These Concepts Because D Bread Action Of learning data structure using c++, this is the knowledge of C Plus and if you have not read C Plus Plus, then I request you, there is a free course certificate of C Plus Plus on Date of Layer's website, spend some time there first. Learn Plus Plus, after that I will study the data structure along with the concepts of C Plus Plus and C++, I have already taught you, a complete course is available. Okay, so if you have read C Plus Plus, then valen good, you are most welcome but If you have not read then take some time and complete C+Plus. Then come to data structure. You have understood that the same data structure is correct which we talked about, what is data, what is the structure of D data, you also score inside D memory. What is D relation? Well, I told you the types of data structure where we talked about linear and non-linear data structure but linear and non-linear. Why is any data structure called so? What is sequential data structure? What is non-sequential? We understood but when it comes to implementing all these concepts then we say data structure concept, it is implemented in study and dynamic format, so we understood what is the difference between static data structure and diabetic data structure, so I hope the concept is up to this point. Now you have understood that our first lecture today was Introduction to Data Structure and if you like the video then please comment and share it with your friends and also like it. Okay, there are too many less so okay like it. Say goodbye slowly